(e) in the case of an admission made by a person to whom a party has expressly
referred for information, where the case falls within section 20, the party who
has so expressly referred for information.

(2) Admissions cannot be proved by or on behalf of the person who makes them or by his
representative in interest, except in the following cases:-

(a) An admission may be proved by or on behalf of the person making it, when it
is of such a nature that, if the person making it were dead, it would be relevant
as between third persons under section 32.

(b) An admission may be proved by or on behalf of the person making it, when it
consists of a statement of the existence of any state of mind or body, relevant
or in issue, made at or about the time when such state of mind or body existed,
and is accompanied by conduct rendering its falsehood improbable.

(c) An admission may be proved by or on behalf of the person making it, when it
is relevant otherwise as an admission.

Illustrations

(a) The question between A and B is, whether a certain deed is or is not forged. A
affirms that it is genuine, B that it is forged.

A may prove a statement by B that the deed is genuine, and B may prove a
statement by A that the deed is forged; but A cannot prove a statement by
himself that the deed is genuine, nor can B prove a statement by himself that
the deed is forged.

(b) A, the captain of a ship, is tried for casting her away.
Evidence is given to show that the ship was taken out of her proper course.
A produces a book kept by him in the ordinary course of his business,
showing observations alleged to have been taken by him from day to day, and
indicating that the ship was not taken out of her proper course. A may prove
these statements, because they would be admissible between third parties, if
he were dead, under section 32, clause (2).

(c)A is accused of a crime committed by him at Calcutta.

He produces a letter written by himself and dated at Lahore on that day and
bearing the Lahore post-mark of that day.

The statement in the date of the letter is admissible, because, if A were dead,
it would be admissible, under section 32, clause (2).