51

and unless the court is satisfied that such evidence of which the witness is compelled as
aforesaid, has or would have sufficient probative value which outweighs the prejudice
that may be caused.”

Amendment of section 149

85. In section 149 of the principal Act, for the Illustrations (a) to (d), the following
Illustrations shall be substituted, namely:-

(a) A legal practitioner is instructed by another legal practitioner that an
important witness is a thief. This is a reasonable ground for the first legal
practitioner for asking the witness whether he is a thief.

(b) A legal practitioner is informed by a person in Court that an important witness
is a thief. The informant, on being questioned by the legal practitioner, gives
satisfactory reasons for his statement. This is a reasonable ground for asking
the witness whether he is a thief.

(c) A witness, of whom nothing whatever is known, is asked by a legal
practitioner at random whether he is a thief. There are here no reasonable
grounds for the question.

(d) A witness, of whom nothing whatever is known, being questioned by a Legal
practitioner as to his mode of life and means of living, gives unsatisfactory
answers. This may be a reasonable ground for asking him if he is a thief.”

Substitution of section 150

86. For section 150 of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted,
namely:-

Procedure _of Court in case of question being asked without
reasonable grounds

“150. Ifthe Court is of opinion that any such question was asked without
reasonable grounds, it may, if it was asked by any legal practitioner, report the
circumstances of the case to the appropriate Bar Council established under the
Advocates Act, 1961 to which such legal practitioner is subject in the exercise of
his profession.”

Amendment of section 154
87. Section 154 of the principal Act shall be renumbered as subsection (1) thereof and

after subsection (1) as so renumbered, the following subsection shall be inserted
namely:-