28

Presumption as to books, maps, plans and charts

“87. The Court may presume that any book to which it may refer for information
on matters of public or general interest, and that any published map or plan or
chart, the statements regarding which are relevant facts and which is produced for
its inspection, was written and published by the person and at the time and place,
by whom or at which it purports to have been written and published.”

Substitution of section 90

53. For section 90 of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted,
namely:-

Presumption as to certain documents 20 years old

“90(1) Where any document, purporting or proved to be twenty years old, is
produced from any custody which the Court in the particular case considers
proper, the Court may presume that the signature and every other part of such
document, which purports to be in the handwriting of any particular person, is in
that person’s handwriting, and, in the case of a document executed or attested,
that it was duly executed and attested by the person by whom it purports to be
executed or attested.

(2) Where any such document as is referred to in subsection (1) was registered in
accordance with the law relating to registration of documents and a duly certified
copy thereof is produced, the Court may presume that the signature and every
other part of such document which purports to be in the handwriting of any
particular person, is in that person’s handwriting and in the case of a document
executed or attested, that it was duly executed and attested by the person by
whom it purports to have been executed or attested.

Explanation: Documents referred to in sub-section (1) are said to be in proper
custody if they are in the place in which, and under the care of the person with
whom they would naturally be, but no custody is improper if it is proved to have
had a legitimate origin, or if the circumstances of the particular case are such as
to render such an origin probable.

This explanation applies also to section 81 and clause (a) of section 90A.

Illustrations
(a) A, has been in possession of landed property for a long time. He
produced from his custody deeds relating to the land, showing him
titles to it. The custody is proper.