47

(a) A, a person of the highest character, is tried for causing a man’s death by an
act of negligence in arranging certain machinery. B, a person of equally of good
character, who also took part in the arrangement, describes precisely what was
done, and admits and explains the common carelessness of A and himself. The
evidence of B shall have to be considered by the Court, while deciding on the
negligence of A.

(b) A crime is committed by several persons. A, B and C, three of the criminals
are captured on the spot and kept apart from each other — each gives an account of
the crime implicating D, and the accounts corroborate each in such a manner as to
render the previous concert highly improbable. The variance in the different
accounts of facts given by A, B, C as to the part of D shall be taken into account
by the Court while deciding if D was an accomplice.”

Amendment of section 137

77. In section 137 of the principal Act, for the words “Re-examination.- The
examination of a witness, subsequent to the cross examination by the party who called
him ,shall be called his re-examination” the following shall be substituted, namely:-

“Re-examination.- The further examination of a witness by the party who called
him, subsequent to the cross-examination, shall be called re-examination.”

Substitution of section 138

78. For section 138 of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted,
namely:-
Order of examinations

“138.(1) A witness shall be first examined-in-chief, then (if the adverse party
so desires) cross examined, then (if the party so desires) re-examined.

(2) The examination and cross examination must relate to relevant facts but
the cross examination need not be confined to the facts to which the witness
testified on his examination in chief.

(3) Direction of re-examination : The re-examination shall be directed to
the explanation of matters referred to in cross examination; and if new matter is,
by permission of the Court, introduced in re-examination, the adverse party may
further cross-examine upon that matter.