Chapter 2: Quantum isometry groups: approach based on Laplacian 54

 

smooth isometry for all s in S. The morphism set is defined as above ( replacing group
homomorphisms by continuous set maps ).

Therefore, to define the quantum isometry group, it is reasonable to consider a
category of compact quantum groups which act on the manifold (or more generally,
on a noncommutative manifold given by spectral triple) in a ‘nice’ way, preserving the
Riemannian structure in some suitable sense, which is precisely formulated in [30], where
it is also proven that a universal object in the category of such quantum groups does

exist if one makes some natural regularity assumptions on the spectral triple.

2.1.2 The definition and existence of the quantum isometry group

Let (A®,H, D) be a Q-summable spectral triple of compact type. We recall from section
1.5 the Hilbert spaces of k-forms H4,,k = 0,1, 2,... and also the Laplacian £L = —dpdp.

To define the quantum isometry group, we need the following assumptions:

Assumptions

1. dp is closable and A® C Dom(L) where A® is viewed as a dense subspace of
H,.

2. £ has compact resolvents.

3. L(A®) C A™.

4. Each eigenvector of £ ( which has a discrete spectrum, hence a complete set of
eigenvectors ) belongs to A®.

5. ( connectedness assumption ) The kernel of £ is one dimensional, spanned by the
identity 1 of A®, viewed as a unit vector in H,.

6. The complex linear span of the eigenvectors of £, denoted by Aj° is norm dense

in A®.
Definition 2.1.1. We say that a spectral triple satisfying the assumptions 1. - 6.
admissible.

The following result is contained in Remark 2.16 of [30].

Proposition 2.1.2. If an admissible spectral triple (A~,H, D) satisfies the condition
(\Dom(L") = A®, and ifa: A — A®S is a smooth isometric action on A® by a
CQG S, then for all state 6 on S, ag(= (id @ d)a) keeps A® invariant.

In view of the characterization of smooth isometric action on a classical compact
manifold ( Proposition 1.4.1 and Proposition 1.4.2 in Chapter 1 ), Goswami gave the

following definition in [30].

Definition 2.1.3. A quantum family of smooth isometries of the noncommutative man-

ifold A® ( or more precisely on the corresponding spectral triple ) is a pair (S,a) where