21 Quantum Groups

 

From now on, we will drop the term co in the word co-representation unless there

is any confusion.

Remark 1.2.22. Let 7 be a CQG morphism from a CQG (S1,A1) to another CQG
(Sg, Ag). Then for every unitary representation U of S,, (id @7)U is a unitary repre-

sentation of Sa.

Following the definitions given in the last part of subsection 1.1.4 and a unitary
representation U of a CQG on a Hilbert space H, and a not necessarily bounded,
densely defined (in the weak operator topology) linear functional 7 on B(H), we will
use the notation ay and the terms “ay preserves T” and “ U equivariant ” throughout
this thesis.

A CQG (S,A) has a distinguished representation which corresponds to the right
regular representation in the group case. Let 7 be the GNS space of S associated with
the Haar state h, & be the associated cyclic vector and K be a Hilbert space on which
S acts faithfully and non-degenerately. There is a unitary operator u on 7 ®K defined
by u(a&o ® 7) = A(a)(&o ® 7) when a is in S, 7 is in K. Then wu can be shown to be an
element of multiplier of K(H) @ S and called the right regular representation of S.

Let v be a representation of a CQG (S, A) on a Hilbert space H. A closed subspace
Hy of H is said to be invariant if (e @ 1)v(e ® 1) = v(e @ 1), where e is the orthogonal
projection onto this subspace. The representation v is called irreducible if the only
invariant subspaces are {0} and H. It is clear that one can make sense of direct sum of
(co)-representations in this case also. Moreover, for two representations v and w of a
CQG (S, A) on Hilbert spaces Hi and Ha, the tensor product of v and w is given by the
element 0(13)W(23). The intertwiner between v and w is an element x in B(Hy, H2) such
that (v@1)v = w(x®1). The set of intertwiners between v and w is denoted by Mor(v, w).

Two representations are said to be equivalent if there is an invertible intertwiner. They

 

are unitarily equivalent if the intertwiner can be chosen to be unitary.

Just like the case of compact groups, CQG s have an analogous Peter Wey] theory
which corresponds to the usual Peter Weyl theory in the group case. We will give a
sketch of it by mentioning the main results and refer to [41], [66] and [67] for the details.

Let v be a unitary representation of (S,A) on H. If Hy is an invariant subspace,
then the orthogonal complement of Hj, is also invariant. Any non degenerate finite
dimensional representation is equivalent with a unitary representation.

Every irreducible unitary representation of a CQG is contained in the regular rep-
resentation. Let uv be a representation on a finite dimensional Hilbert space H. If we
denote the matrix units in B(H) by (epg), we can write v = S> epg ® Upg. Upq are called
the matrix elements of the finite dimensional representation v. Define 0 = )7 epg ® Upq-
Then @ is a representation and is called the adjoint of v. It can be shown that if v is

a finite dimensional irreducible representation, then U is also irreducible. Moreover, for