Chapter 3: Quantum group of orientation preserving Riemannian isometries 70

 

that recently there has been a lot of interest and work (see, for example, [13], [18], {23])
towards construction of quantum group equivariant spectral triples. In all these works,
given a C*-subalgebra A of B(H) and a CQG Q having a unitary representation U on H
such that ay(= ady) gives an action of Q on A, the authors investigate the possibility
of constructing a (nontrivial) spectral triple (A®,H, D) on a suitable dense subalgebra
A® of A such that U commutes with D @ I, that is, D is equivariant. Our interest here
is in the (sort of) converse direction: given a spectral triple, we want to consider all
possible CQG representations with respect to which the spectral triple is equivariant;
and if there exists a universal object in the corresponding category, that is, Q’, we
should call it the quantum group of orientation preserving isometries.

Unfortunately, even in the finite-dimensional (but with noncommutative A) situation
this category may often fail to have a universal object, as will be discussed later. It
turns out, however, that if we fix a suitable densely defined ( in the WOT ) functional
on B(H) (to be interpreted as the choice of a ‘volume form’) then there exists a universal
object in the subcategory of Q’ obtained by restricting the object-class to the quantum
group actions which also preserve the given functional. The subtle point to note here is
that unlike the classical group actions on B(H) which always preserve the usual trace,
a quantum group action may not do so. In fact, it was proved by Goswami in [31] that
given an object (Q,U) of Q’ (where Q is a compact quantum group and U denotes its
unitary co-representation on #1), we can find a positive invertible operator R in H so
that the given spectral triple is R-twisted in the sense of [31] and the corresponding
functional tr (which typically differs from the usual trace of B(H) and can have a
nontrivial modularity) is preserved by the action of Q. This makes it quite natural to
work in the setting of twisted spectral data (as defined in [31]).

Motivated by the ideas of Woronowicz and Soltan ( [68], [53] ), we actually consider a
bigger category called the category of ‘quantum families of smooth orientation preserving
Riemannian isometries’. The underlying C*-algebra of the quantum group of orientation
preserving isometries (whenever exists) has been identified with the universal object in
this bigger category and moreover, it is shown to be equipped with a canonical coproduct
making it into a compact quantum group.

In this chapter, we discuss a number of examples, covering the classical spectral triple
on C%(T?) as well as the equivariant spectral triples constructed recently on SU,,(2). It
may be relevant to point out here that it was not clear whether one could accommodate
the spectral triples on SU,(2) and the Podles’ spheres S? a in the framework of [30],
since it is very difficult to give a nice description of the space of ‘noncommutative’ forms
and the Laplacian for these examples. However, the present formulation in terms of the
Dirac operator makes it easy to accommodate them, and we have been able to identify

U,,(2) and SO,(3) as the universal quantum group of orientation preserving isometries