129 QISO® of a Rieffel deformed noncommutative manifold

 

4.4 QISO* of a Rieffel deformed noncommutative mani-
fold

4.4.1 Derivation of the main result

In this subsection, our set up is as in section 4.1 so that we have spectral triples on AP
for each J such that the spectral triple on A®™ satisfies all the assumptions mentioned
in chapter 2 for ensuring the existence of QISO* where L is the Laplacian coming from
the spectral triple. As QISO* has a C* action on A, we get a subalgebra Ag as in
Lemma 4.3.1. Thus, the assumptions of section 4.2 are satisfied so that the conclusions
in that subsection hold for QISO£(A®,H, D).

We recall from Chapter 2 that Ao will denote the *-algebra generated by complex
linear (algebraic, not closed) span Aj® of the eigenvectors of £ which has a countable
discrete set of eigenvalues each with finite multiplicities, by assumptions for the existence
of QISO®. By the same assumptions, A3° is a subset of A® and is norm-dense in A.
Here, we make the following additional assumptions.

Assumptions (i) Ap is dense in A® w.r.t. the Frechet topology coming from the
action of T”.

(ii) As; Dom(L”) = A®.

(iii) £ commutes with the T”-action 8, hence C(T”) can be identified as a sub
object of QISOF in the category Q’.

Let 7 denote the surjective map from QISO£ to its quantum subgroup C (T”), which
is a morphism of compact quantum groups. We denote by a : A > A® QISO® the
action of QISO£ on A, and note that on Ao, this action is algebraic, that is, it is
an action of the Hopf *-algebra Qo consisting of matrix elements of finite dimensional
unitary representations of Q. We have (id @7)oa= 8.

We recall from Proposition 1.3.8 that A® = AS as topological spaces, that is they
coincide as sets and the corresponding Frechet topologies are also equivalent. In view of
this, we shall denote this space simply by A®, unless one needs to consider it as Frechet

algebra, in which case the suffix J will be used.

Lemma 4.4.1. For F in B89 (R?) ( notation as in section 1.3 ) and a trace class

operator W,

Tr( / / P(uv)Welu.n)dudr) = [ / Tr(F(u,v)W)e(u.v)dudv.

Proof : From the definition of oscillatory integral, we have mj(F(u,v)) =
Mee J (F (u,v) bp) (u, v)e(u.v)dudv ( notations as in section 1.3 ). Let {Ln}n be a

sequence of subsets of L such that it increases to L. Then, as the above sum is strongly