71 Definition and existence of the quantum group of orientation-preserving isometries

 

for the spectral triples on SU,,(2) and Si respectively (the computations for Sie have
been presented in Chapter 5).

We conclude this section with an important remark about the use of the phrase
‘orientation -preserving’ in our terminology. We recall from Remark 1.5.5 that by a
‘classical spectral triple’ we always mean the spectral triple obtained by the Dirac op-
erator on the spinors. This is absolutely crucial in view of the fact that the Hodge
Dirac operator d+ d* on the L?-space of differential forms also gives a spectral triple
of compact type on any compact Riemannian (not necessarily with a spin structure)
manifold M, but the action of the full isometry group JSO(M) (and not just the sub-
group of orientation preserving isometries [SOt(M), even when M is orientable) lifts
to a canonical unitary representation on this space commuting with d+ d*. In fact, the
category of groups acting on M such that the action comes from a unitary representa-
tion commuting with d+ d*, has ISO(M), and not [SO*(M), as its universal object.
So, one must stick to the Dirac operator on spinors to obtain the group of orientation
preserving isometries in the usual geometric sense. This also has a natural quantum

generalization, as we shall see in section 3.3.

3.2 Definition and existence of the quantum group of

orientation-preserving isometries

3.2.1 The classical case

We first discuss the classical situation clearly, which will serve as a motivation for our
quantum formulation.

We begin with a few basic facts about topologizing the space C~(M, N) where M, N
are smooth manifolds. Let 2 be an open set of R”. We endow C'™(Q) with the usual
Frechet topology coming from uniform convergence (over compact subsets) of partial
derivatives of all orders. The space C™(Q) is complete with respect to this topology,
so is a Polish space in particular. Moreover, by the Sobolev imbedding theorem (
Corollary 1.21, [48] ), Mgs0He(Q) = C™(Q) as a set, where Hj,(Q) denotes the k-
th Sobolev space. Thus, C°(Q) has also the Hilbertian seminorms coming from the
Sobolev spaces, hence the corresponding Frechet topology. We claim that these two
topologies on C™(Q)) coincide. Indeed, the inclusion map from C™(Q) into N,H,(Q),
is continuous and surjective, so by the open mapping theorem for Frechet space, the
inverse is also continuous, proving our claim.

Given two second countable smooth manifolds M, N, we shall equip C®(M, N) with
the weakest locally convex topology making C®(M, N) 3 d+ fod e€ C™(M) Frechet

continuous for every f in C°(N).