Chapter 0

Introduction

The theme of this thesis lies on the interface of two areas of the so called “ noncommuta-
tive mathematics ”, namely noncommutative geometry (NCG) a la Connes, cf [17] and
the theory of ( C*-algebraic ) compact quantum groups (CQG) a la Woronowicz, cf [67]
which are generalizations of classical Riemannian spin geometry and that of compact
topological groups respectively.

The root of NCG can be traced back to the Gelfand Naimark theorem which says
that there is an anti-equivalence between the category of (locally) compact Hausdorff
spaces and (proper, vanishing at infinity) continuous maps and the category of (not
necessarily) unital C* algebras and *-homomorphisms. This means that the entire
topological information of a locally compact Hausdorff space is encoded in the com-
mutative C* algebra of continuous functions vanishing at infinity. This motivates one
to view a possibly noncommutative C* algebra as the algebra of “functions on some
noncommutative space”.

In classical Riemannian geometry on spin manifolds, the Dirac operator on the
Hilbert space L?(S) of square integrable sections of the spinor bundle contains a lot of
geometric information. For example, the metric, the volume form and the dimension of
the manifold can be captured from the Dirac operator. This motivated Alain Connes to
define his noncommutative geometry with the central object as the spectral triple which
is a triplet (A, H, D) where H is a separable Hilbert space, A is a (not necessarily closed)
*-algebra of B(H), D is a self adjoint (typically unbounded) operator ( sometimes called
the Dirac operator of the spectral triple ) such that [D,a] admits a bounded extension.
This generalizes the classical spectral triple (C°(M), L?(S), D) on any Riemannian spin
manifold M, where D denotes the usual Dirac operator.

On the other hand, quantum groups have their origin in different problems in math-
ematical physics as well as the theory of classical locally compact groups. It was S.L.

Woronowicz, who in [66] and [67] was able to pinpoint a set of axioms for defining