Need for Data Warehouse

The Darbury Institute of Information Technology (DIIT) is an engineering institution that conducts
engineering courses in Information Technology (IT), Computer Science (CS), System Engineering
(SE), Information Science (IS), etc.

Each department (IT, CS, SE, IS, etc.) has an automaetd library that meticulously handles library
transactions and has good learning content in the form of DVDs, magazines, journals, several online
references, etc.

DIT is also looking at expansion to have its branches in all major cities.

The only downside of the library data is that it is stored differently by different departments. One
department stores it in MS Excel spreadsheets, another stores it in MS Access database, and yet
another department maintains a .CSV (Comma Separated Values) file. The DUT administration is in
need of report that indicates the annual spending on library purchases. The report should further drill
down to the spending by each department by category (books, CDs/DVDs, magazines, journals, etc.).
However, preparing such a report is not easy because of different data formats used by different
departments. Prof. Frank (an expert on database technology) was called upon to suggest a possible
solution to the problem at hand. He feels it would be better to start archiving the data in a data
warehouse/data mart.

The aS UMERS put forth by him in favor of a library data warehouse are

Data from several heterogenous data sources (MS Excel spreadsheets, MS Access CSVfile, etc.) can be extracted and brought
together in a data warehouse.

¢ Even when DIIT expands into several branches in multiple cities, it still can have one ware-house to support the information needs
of the institution.

Data anomalies can be corrected through an ETL package.

Missing or incomplete records can be detected and duly corrected.

Uniformity can be maintained over each attribute of a table.

Data can be conveniently retrieved for analysis and generating reports (like the report on spending requested above).
Fact-based decision making can be easily supported by a data warehouse.

Ad hoc queries can be easily supported.