3.13 R & D AND ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS

The Indian institutions covered include: CSIR, DRDO, DOD, ICAR, IITs, Universities
etc. Basic information about all CSIR, ISRO and DRDO laboratories has been provided
on our site along with links to individual sites if available. Few institutions have put up
their sites as a part of NIC site and few others like IIT have their own web sites. While
there is a lot of scope to improve the contents of pages covering institutions worldwide,
attempt has been made give links to select few from US and other countries.

3.14 GENERAL INFORMATION

Hyperlinks to various sources of information on Government, Libraries, News Papers,
Dictionaries, Travel, Sports, etc. Newspapers have been segregated in to English and
regional languages. We intend to widen the scope of this page and give links under
various categories of general interest.

3.15 ESPECIALLY FOR LIBRARIANS

L & IS professionals can look for information regarding Associations, forthcoming
Conferences, Databases, Journals, Schools, Library Networks, News Groups, etc. meant
for professional matters and sources information required for day to day library activities
for providing effective information services.

3.16 ICAST INFORMATION
Coming down to our own information center, the following details have been provided:

e Library membership, document collection, shelf arrangement of books, working
hours, library staff, list of journals subscribed by ICAST with hyperlinks to
publishers sites if available.

e Services including Document Circulation, Xerox, Translation, Information, etc.
along with direct e-mailing facility to the concerned in service matters.

e Search Library Catalogue (OPAC) and know the availability of books, their issue
status and on-line reservation of documents, etc.

e List of Additions to ICAST

o CABA-Combined Aerospace Books Additions, a monthly.
o CARA-Combined Aerospace Reports Additions, a monthly.
o Journals-Recent Arrivals, fortnightly.

3.17 UNION CATALOGUE OF BANGALORE SCIENCE LIBRARIES

This page gives access to union Catalogue of Books, Reports, etc held by libraries of
IISc, NAL&RRI and current journals being subscribed by about 20 Bangalore libraries.
This site is hosted by NCSI/IISc server. This is an experimental project where one can
search books by author, title, keywords, etc. using many of the search engines MG,