WAIS and ISIS. One can know journal titles subscribed by a particular library or
availability of a particular title.

4.0 SPECIALISED SERVICES OFFERED THROUGH ICAST WEBSITE

Access to select list of Full-Text Journals available on Internet.

Journals Contents page service (Subscribed by ICAST).

Journal Contents downloading from publishers sites.

Web Alert Service - by identifying important sites relevant to NAL scientists

Access to International Databases - by subscribing to IDS/Cambridge Scientific

Abstracts (as a consortia approach with other leading aerospace organisations) for

Aerospace and Material Science Databases simultaneously.

o Links have been provided for accessing Full Text electronic journals either freely
available on the net or via subscription.

o More than 300 S&T journals content have been put up on the site for browsing.
An e-mail based service for the journals contents is being provided to NAL users.

o For some relevant journals (not subscribed by NAL) of interest to NAL scientists,
hyperlinks have been provided for downloading.

o Through AeroInfo — Web Alert Service, a Current Awareness Service is extended

to NAL staff by identifying and linking to important and relevant sites.

oo000

5.0 MAINTANENCE AND UPDATION

The site is being continuously updated by visiting the existing and new sites. Latest
information regarding the current awareness service is being provided. Users suggestion
for further improvement is being taken care of. More worldwide information coverage is
being thought of.

6.0 WHAT YOU SHOULD DO TO ACCESS ‘AeroInfo’.

Access URL
http://www.cmmacs.ernet.in/nal/icast/ - for Internet
http://192.168.6.60/icast/ - for NAL Intranet

6.0 CONCLUSION:

Electronic information sources are the prime attraction of readers in today’s networked
environment. AeroInfo catering to the needs of Aerospace users’ community to the hilt is
intended to emerge as the first of its kind of virtual Library in the country. Continuous
efforts are being made to update the site with more links with a view to provide
information electronically to the maximum in the coming future.