including true and false. The rest lie in between, i.e., having some degree of truth or truth
value. This truth value lies in [0, 1]. If the proposition is true, the value is | and if it is false
the value is 0. Any value in between indicates its degree of truth.

Logical Connectives

Multiple propositions are connected by ‘logical connectives’. The term AND and OR are two
logical connectives. These connectives in fuzzy logic can be defined like this:
| x, is. A, AND x, is A, |=| x, is A, | A| x, is A, | and
| x, is A, OR x, is A, |F| x, is A, | Vv | x, is A, | (13)
where, “x; is A;’ is a proposition, andAandv denote the MIN and MAX operators,
respectively.

Premise Variable

In fuzzy logic, the proposition/s representing the prevailing condition/s is represented as a
linguistic variable, named as premise variable. It certainly can carry a value with it. But, that
value does not always guarantee its exact grouping.

Consequence Variable

This represents the course of action corresponding to a particular combination of premise
variables. It is a fuzzy number representing the approximate value of the course of action.
This fuzzy number is approximately equal to a crisp value.

Implication and Reasoning

In the fuzzy rule based inference system, more than one propositions (which are captured by
the premise variables) are connected by logical connectives to define the course of action
(which is captured by the consequence variable). For a particular set of premise variables,
there is a unique value of consequence variable connected by a fuzzy rule denoting a
particular corresponding action. This action is the conclusion of the fuzzy logic. If the
prevailing conditions (Input) are such that, satisfy the compatibility with the premise
variables of any particular rule; the inferred course of action (Output) will be the same as that
defined by the consequence variable of that particular rule (see Figure 1). But, if the
prevailing conditions are such that, satisfy the compatibility with the premise variables of
more than one rule, the course of action is determined by the weighted average of the
consequence variables of all those rules.

Prevailing

conditions Premise Consequence Course
variables variable of action

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Infer

Figure 1: Fuzzy inference system

Details of fuzzy logic can be obtained from [1, 4, 5].