APPLICATIONS OF FUZZY LOGIC IN TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEERING

Transportation engineering, when concentrated on road transportation is concerned about
construction and maintenance of roads and movement of vehicles therein. The second part,
i.e., movement of vehicles requires scheduling and routing of vehicles and a lot of control
mechanisms. These all depend on availability of resources (like, number of vehicles available,
whether proper electronic devices are available for signal controlling at intersection or not
etc.) and the demand of people for transportation. For a particular resource availability
condition, the task is to effort for catering the demand efficiently. For this it is of utmost
necessity to have proper control mechanism and scheduling and routing strategy. Most
importantly, it is necessary to understand the motion of vehicles on roads, i.e., the traffic flow
theory. Various models have been proposed to understand traffic flow using various methods
till now. On the operation side, lots of problems are encountered everyday, namely, delay,
traffic jam, accidents and so on. Studies have been conducted on analysis of delay and queue
on roads and also on reasons and mitigations of accidents.

There are some areas in transportation engineering where imprecise perception involves. One
of them is modeling the behavior of drivers (which is a human thought process). Modeling
driver behavior involves to predict how a driver of a particular vehicle responds (in terms
acceleration) according to the behavior of other drivers (in terms acceleration) and the
environment. This environment may be static (roadway features) as well as dynamic (other
vehicles). So, fuzzy logic has been applied into modeling driver behavior, which is imprecise
in nature. Fuzzy logic has also been applied into transportation planning for deciding mode
choice and route choice. Control devices, like signal control at signalized intersection (where
the perception of the condition is not clear and the consequence of decision is not known) are
suitable places for applicability of fuzzy logic.

Fuzzy logic has been applied into traffic modeling, transportation planning, traffic control and
some more areas in transportation engineering. In the modeling and planning side fuzzy
inference system has been developed to capture the imprecise decision making of drivers;
whereas, in the control and application side, the concept of fuzzy logic has been implemented
into machines.

Application of Fuzzy Logic in Traffic Flow Modeling: Car Following Behavior

Modeling traffic flow involves studying the behavior of vehicles in response to the behavior
of other vehicles. Generally, a vehicle considers the vehicle just ahead and behaves
accordingly. This behavior is called car following behavior, which is observed during
congested traffic flow; because at free flow condition a driver need not to bother about the
vehicles far ahead. Study of this behavior is necessary for adaptive cruise control for
automated highway system (AHS). Some models have been proposed by various researchers
to capture the car following behavior; among them one worth mentioning model is by General
Motors (GM) [7]. This model uses the following equation to represent the behavior of the
following vehicle (n+1" vehicle) in terms of acceleration (where, n" vehicle is the leading

vehicle)
ar(L,m)( iy (t+ At)”

dea Keyes
Ful AD= yx, Oy

314, - X40] (14)