Challenges and Applications of Mathematics in in Science and Technology
(CAMIST)" held in Mathematics department, NIT Rourkela. 2010

SOME APPLICATIONS OF FUZZY LOGIC IN TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEERING

U. Chattaraj and M. Panda

Department of Civil Engineering, National Institute of Technology, Rourkela — 769
008, Orissa, India

ABSTRACT

Fuzzy logic is able to express any natural phenomenon especially related to human
decision making efficiently using linguistic variables, which is not promising using
any mathematical expression. In this paper details of fuzzy sets and fuzzy inference are
presented. Fuzzy logic proved its wide applications in many areas. A review of
important applications of fuzzy logic in transportation engineering (involving traffic
flow modeling, transportation planning, and traffic control mechanisms and so on) has
been presented in this paper, from which it is observed that fuzzy logic is an important
tool for understanding and solving various problems related to transportation engineering.

INTRODUCTION

“The power (in a set-theoretic sense) of our thinking and feeling is much higher than the
power of living language. If in turn we compare the power of a living language with the
logical language, then we will find that logic is even poorer.” — Zimmermann [1].

From the above quotation it can be said that expressing any natural phenomenon by
mathematical expressions does not always guarantee exact capturing of the phenomenon
itself. So, if any phenomenon, especially related to human decision making can be expressed
linguistically chance of proper capturing of the phenomenon increases. Fuzzy logic is such a
logic, which is based on approximate reasoning and can be expressed linguistically to capture
the inherent vagueness of human mind. So, it can be applied to the areas which involve
human decision making like supervision, monitoring, planning, scheduling etc. In this Paper
basic properties of fuzzy logic have been described in the beginning and then its applications
to transportation engineering have been presented. Transportation engineering involves
human decision making in terms of route choice, choice of speed etc. and some control
mechanisms (as for example, signalized intersection) where prevailing situations are
imprecise in nature and the outcome of any adopted control strategy is unknown. So, there are
plenty of scopes of application of fuzzy logic in transportation engineering.

This paper is broadly divided into five sections, of which this is the first to introduce the
matter. The next section discusses in detail about fuzzy sets; while, the third section is on
fuzzy inference. The fourth section concentrates on the review of the case studies of
applications of fuzzy logic in transportation engineering. Finally, in the fifth section