Marketing Metrics: A Surrogate of Firm Valuation
Shigufta Hena Uzma
Assistant Professor, School of Management,
National Institute of Technology Rourkela,

Rourkela 769008, Odisha. shigufta.uzma@gmail.com, uzmas@nitrkl.ac.in

 

ABSTACT:

Purpose of Research: Valuation has always been of an interest for financial purpose
nevertheless, with the brand valuation; marketing practitioners understand the prominence of
valuation with marketing metrics such as brand valuation and customer equity. The subjectivity
exists because there are no standardized valuation models. What can be the components of
marketing metrics and do they evade the intrinsic value. Concepts such as brand equity and
customer equity are being commonly linked to firm value and shareholder value. Can investors
rely on financial statements that divulge such metric as brand value? The aim is to develop a
framework that identifies the key metrics and link to business performance.

Methodology: An extensive exploration to excavate the financial and marketing metrics for the
valuation of brands. Examine existing literature on the impact of marketing metrics on the firm
value.

Major Finding: The firm size, royalty rates, market share, marketing productivity, return on
investment and the likes are common metrics for brand valuation. Emerging studies are equating
the impact of marketing metrics such as brand equity, customer equity and customer satisfaction,
customer lifetime value as surrogate parameters on return on the marketing, shareholder value
and the firm value.

Implications: Marketing practitioners must decide how to report brand specific data, valuators
must understand the company specific need instead of tailored made valuation models. The
management decisions to use brand valuation models need to change in the light of growing
comprehensiveness and investors’ demand. The metrics selection, whether financial or marketing

will be according to the changing business model.

Keywords: Brand equity, Customer equity, Financial Metrics, Marketing Metrics, Firm Value.