Extended ABSTACT:

Valuation of firms has always been of interest for financial purposes nevertheless, marketing
practitioners understand the prominence of valuation with marketing metrics such as brand
valuation and customer equity. The subjectivity in the basic components of valuation exists
because there are no standardized valuation models. What can be the components of marketing
metrics and do they evade the intrinsic value. Concepts such as brand equity and customer equity
are being commonly linked to firm value and shareholder value. Can investors rely on financial
statements that divulge such metric as brand value? The aim is to develop a framework that
identifies the key metrics and link to business performance. The advantage of management
decisions and valuation of intangible assets and brands are that they provide companies with the
abilities to develop and protect their assets. An increase in brand value always increases the
firm’s value or vis-a-vis. As there is no market price prevalent for brands thus the
acquisition/licensing price is its inherent value. Literature in the past have drawn a synthesis of
the accounting and marketing in the valuation of marketing assets as brands (El-Tawy and
Tollington, 2008; Inglis, 2008; McManus and Guilding, 2008, Sidhu and Roberts, 2008), while
other studies have tried to differentiate between the two (Gleaves et al., 2008, Roslender et al.,
2008). Brand valuation sparked a debate whether a marketing asset should be capitalised in the
financial statements. The same controversy stimulates a debate three decades hence. Brand
related information can give the investors about the future prospects of the company. Investors
invest in companies that generate future cash flows and because brands are so intertwined with
business components, therefore, to differentiate brand as a separate identity is a unique
application. Brands in the past have been valued by their potential to generate royalty cash flow
through licensing to a third party. The royalty rate can be determined by the discounted cash
flows or multiplier (El-Tawy and Tollington, 2008). Companies with recognised brands must
consider how brands can be valued and protected as an intellectual asset; hence, companies
should strive how these two features should increase the value and scope of the brand and a firm
as a whole. Increasing companies are endeavouring to put intellectual assets such as brands on
the balance sheet. Brands have been valued for acquisition and taxation purpose in the past.

Established brands can obtain required cost of capital at a relatively less price for their continued