Sexual Harassment: From Psychological and adoption of Best
practices Perspectives

Dr.Bhaswati Patnaik* and Dr.Bhojaraju Gunjal**
Associate Professor*
Department of Humanities and Social Sciences
Head, Central Library**
National Institute of Technology, Rourkela

Sexual harassment has become one of the alarming symptoms of unhealthy work culture in
recent times. Irrespective of gender, unsolicited sexual favours represent, among several others,
aberration in the individual thought process. Instances of corruption, bribery and other forms of
abuse indicate how an individual or a group is prone to exploit others to fulfill one’s selfish
interest. The underlying thread in all of these exploitations appears to be a distorted
conceptualization of self as well as others, within which an individual functions; a world where
the person can violate the ethical boundary with ease, since his/her own interest is supreme and
all other things become immaterial. Integral to this belief system, is an intrinsic disregard to the
right of others to live with dignity. This paper focuses on the adoption and implementation of
organisational best practices at workplace for the safety and prevention of sexual harassment. A
mass sensitization regarding basic conceptualization of self and others is what is emphasized in
this paper. The stimulation of individual mind is the first step in this regard. An opportunity to
reflect about self as well others can help an individual to start looking within and restructure
his/her own belief system. It can lead to an enhanced perspective-taking ability, through which
the appreciation of self as well as others develops, leading to the formation of a healthy belief
system. Therefore, people can be helped to become increasingly conscious of the basic fact that
each individual is an independent free spirit having equal right to enjoy life with dignity. The
growth of a belief system, that has an aroused sense of mutual right and duty to uphold the spirit
of freedom, can be an asset to any work culture that aspires to become secure and productive.

Key words: Sexual harassment, workplace, belief system, sensitization, best practices

Citation:

Patnaik, B and Gunjal, B (2016). Sexual Harassment: Psychological Perspectives and Best
Practices; National Seminar on “Sexual harassment of Women at Educational Institutes
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal), Organised by Committee Against Sexual Harassment,
Hemachandracharya North Gujarat University, Patan and Sponsored by National Commission
for Women, New Delhi; 7-8 January, 2016, Patan, Gujarat.