Effect of plasma nitriding on corrosion behavior of a high carbon low
alloy steel
A. Basu

Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, National Institute of Technology, Rourkela
769008, Odisha, India

basua@nitrkl.ac.in

 

Abstract

The present study deals with improvement of corrosion resistance of a low alloy—high carbon steel by pulsed direct current glow
discharge mode plasma nitriding. During the nitriding, applied voltage was 540-710 V which resulted in 3-6 A current in the
temperature range 450-560°C for a time span of I—S hours. The phases formed after nitriding and their morphology were
characterized by XRD and SEM analysis. Mostly y'-FesN with a small volume fraction of e-Fe;N/Fe,N was observed on the
surface. Nitride fraction was reported to be more with nitriding time and temperature. These nitrides showed improvement in
hardness and wear properties of the steel. Corrosion study revealed that plasma nitriding dramatically improves the corrosion
resistance of this ferritic steel in terms of corrosion potential, corrosion current density and resistance to polarization. This
improvement was attributed mainly to the formation of nitrides on the surface. Quantitative analysis of the nitrides was done with
the help of XRD and the obtained value was found to be linked with corrosion data.

Keywords: Plasma nitriding; Corrosion

 

Extended Abstract

Plasma nitriding of steel compared to conventional gas nitriding or plasma/beam-line ion implantation offers a
greater case depth with enhanced kinetics and induces significant improvement in hardness and wear resistance due
to both dispersion and solid solution hardening. In the past, several studies were undertaken to determine the
mechanism and kinetics of plasma nitriding of ferritic and austenitic steels by Menthe et al., 1995, Lei et al., 1997,
Figueroa et al., 1996, Ana et al., 2014 and many others. Main focus was on austenitic stainless steel due to higher
solubility of nitrogen in face centered cubic (FCC) y-iron and studied were made

by Berg et al. 2000, Nobuteru et al., 2005, Nikolov at al., 2014 and others. Studies have also been carried out earlier
on nitriding of ferritic steel for improving wear resistance property by Jun et al., 1986, Ana et al., 2014 and others.
However, corrosion behavior study of plasma nitrided ferritic steel has not been done in details. The present study
deals with improvement of corrosion resistance of a low alloy—high carbon ferritic steel by pulsed direct current
plasma nitriding technique.

Discs of 20 mm diameter and 5 mm thickness were cut from fully annealed AISI 52100 steel bar. The surface of
the samples was ground and polished using 0.25 jum diamond pastes at the final stage and then thoroughly rinsed
with acetone before plasma nitriding. Plasma nitriding was carried out with varying (isothermal) time and
temperature. After plasma nitriding, both as-received and nitrided samples were polished and etched for a detailed
microstructural investigation on the top surface and cross-sectional plane (perpendicular to the top surface) by
optical and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). To confirm the microstructural evolution in terms of identification
of the phases, samples were studied by x-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis using CoK, (0.179 nm) radiation. A similar
analysis for the near-surface region was done by glancing-angle XRD (GAXRD) at 1, 2, 5 and 10° angles of
incidence with a resolution of 0.005° step width. Quantitative analysis of different phases formed were calculated
from integrated intensity of x-ray peaks using normalized relative (integrated) intensity ratio (RIR) method or
matrix flushing model as described by Chung et al., 1974. The electrochemical characterization was carried out by
potentiodynamic polarization test using a PS6 Meinsberger Potentiostat/Galvanostat connected to a standard three