Innovative Borohydride Synthesis Strategy to Fabricate Red (YBO3:Eu’’) and Green
(YBO3:Tb*’) Nanophosphor with Improved Photoluminescence Characteristics
Shubham SRIVASTAVA”, Niroj Kumar SAHU’, Shantanu Kumar BEHERA’, Bibhuti
Bhusan NAYAK™*

‘Ceramic Engineering, National Institute of Technology Rourkela, India, *Centre for
Nanotechnology Research, VIT University, India
“Presenter

*Corresponding author: bibhutib@gmail.com

The research endeavour on lanthanide ions doped YBO3 nanophosphorts is escalating with the
availability of these borate hosts, which present incentives such as excellent UV absorbance,
high thermal stability and exceptional optical damage threshold [APP Phys: Lett. 80, 1447 (2002)7_
However, for preparation of this host, the use of boric acid (H3BO3) as a boron source is
rampant pSmall 3: 438 2007) TF iterature gives a plethora of evidences for use of excess H3BO3 in

addition to difficulties encountered in formation of high temperature stable YBO3 [" “™ ©*"™

Soc. 2008, 91, 591) Different syntheses employed for YBOs fabrication aim towards improving
colour purity and chromaticity. Our approach allows accomplishing this goal by means of a
unique synthesis strategy for producing high temperature phase pure phosphors with better

photoluminescence properties.

In this context, for the first time, innovative borohydride synthesis strategy using sodium
borohydride (NaBH,) has been explored to fabricate red (YBO3: 5 mol % Eu**) as well as
green (YBO3: 5 mol % Tb’) phosphor. Moreover, phase-stability, microstructure and
photoluminescence properties of these phosphors were studied in detail. The colour purity
[R/O ratio: area under the curve of red (Do Fo transition) to orange (DoF) emission]
of red phosphor and CIE coordinates of both red and green phosphor are strongly dependent
on the excitation wavelengths. The colour tuning from pink to reddish-orange for
YBO3:Eu* and bluish-green to green for YBO3:Tb* is achieved by adjusting excitation
wavelengths from near-VUV to UV. The findings of the study suggest that this borohydride
method is better than the conventional boric acid based solid-state method. The follow up of
the properties unanimously depicts that the use of NaBH, is virtuous for synthesizing

nanophosphors and could be put to use in light emitting diodes and flat display technology.

Keywords: Phosphors; YBO3; Borohydride, Colour purity; CIE coordinates.