33

any, that merely on the suspicion of complicity in an offence, no person should be
arrested. The Police Officer must be satisfied prima facie on the basis of the material
before him that such person is involved in a crime/offence, for which he can be arrested
without a warrant. In this connection, reference maybe made to the decision of the
European Court of Human Rights in Fox, Campbell and Hartley v. U.K. delivered on 30"
August, 1990 declaring that section 11 of Northern Ireland (Emergency Provisions) Act,
1978 is violative of Article 5(1) of the European Convention on Human Rights. The
section empowered a police officer to arrest a person if he is “suspected of being a
terrorist”. The Court (by majority) held that mere suspicion, however bona fide held,
cannot be a ground for arrest. Pursuant to the decision, the aforesaid words were replaced
by the words “has been concerned in the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of
terrorism”. This decision is in accord with the modern concept of human rights, which are
implicit in Part II] of our Constitution.

3.3 Statutorily incorporation of safeguards contained in D.K. Basu’s case.- It is equally
necessary to give legislative recognition to the safeguards contained in the decision of the
Supreme Court in D.K.Basu. The safeguards to be incorporated (being No.1 to 11) have
been set out hereinabove.

3.4 Representatives of registered NGOs to be entitled to visit police stations.- A common
complaint often heard in this connection is that quite often a person is detained in Police
custody without registering the crime and without making any record of such
detention/arrest. Persons are kept for number of days in such unlawful custody and quite
often subjected to ill-treatment and third-degree methods. To check this illegal practice,
there should be a specific provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure creating an
obligation upon the officer in-charge of the Police Station to permit representatives of
registered non-government organizations to visit the Police Station at any time of their
choice to check and ensure that no persons are kept in the Police Stations without keeping

arecord of such arrest and to ensure
34

further that the provisions of the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure are
being observed. For this purpose a procedure must be devised for registration of genuine
NGOs and a record must be kept of their representatives.

3.5 Necessity to increase compoundability of offences and incorporate the concept of plea
bargaining.- It is equally necessary to increase the number of compoundable offences. It
must be remembered that quite a few offences in the IPC are essentially of civil nature.
There must be a massive de-criminalisation of law. The concept of plea bargaining, which
has been recommended in the 154" Report of the Law Commission (on Code of Criminal
Procedure), should be incorporated in the Code. Indeed, early steps need to be taken upon
the said Report.

3.6 No arrest should be made under sections 107 to 110, CrPC and _under_similar
provisions.- So far as proceedings under sections 107 to 110 CrPC are concerned, no
arrests should be made. Police must be empowered to take if necessary a personal interim
bond to keep peace/for good behaviour from such persons. This should be extended to all
similar offences under the local Police Acts. We are not proposing for the present any
change in section 151 of Code of Criminal Procedure.

3.7 Bail should be granted as a matter of course except in the serious offences and in
certain circumstances.- In respect of all offences except the serious offences like murder,