188

212

213

215

216

218

221

222

224

225

Disobedience to an order lawfully promulgated by a public servant, if such disobedience
causes obstruction, annoyance or injury to persons lawfully employed.

If such disobedience causes danger to human life, health or safety, etc..
Harbouring an offender, if the offence be capital.

If punishable with imprisonment for life or with imprisonment for 10 years.

If punishable with imprisonment for | year and not for 10 years.

Taking gift, etc., to screen an offender from punishment if the offence be capital.
If punishable with imprisonment for life or with imprisonment for 10 years.

If punishable with imprisonment for less than 10 years.

Taking gift to help to recover movable property of which a person has been deprived by
an offence without causing apprehension of offender.

Harbouring an offender who has escaped from custody, or whose apprehension has been
ordered, if the offence be capital.

If punishable with imprisonment for life or with imprisonment for 10 years.
If punishable with imprisonment for | year and not for 10 years.

Public servant framing an incorrect record or writing with intent to save person from
punishment, or property from forfeiture.

Intentional omission to apprehend on the part of a public servant bound by law to
apprehend an offender if the offence be punishable with imprisonment for life or for 10

years, if punishable with imprisonment for less than 10 years.

International omission to apprehend on the part of a public servant bound by law to
apprehend person under sentence of a Court of Justice.

If under sentence of imprisonment for less than 10 years or lawfully committed to
custody.
Resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension (Excluded).

Resistance or obstruction to the lawful apprehension of any person, or rescuing him

from lawful custody (Excluded).

225B_ Resistance or obstruction to lawful apprehension, or escape or rescue in cases not

otherwise provided for (Excluded).

228A Disclosure of identity of the victim of certain offences, etc.