Residence

1, JANPATH

NEW DELHI - 110 011

TEL. : 3019465

D.O.No. PPS/CLC(JR)/99 July 20, 1999

Dear Shri Justice Venkatachaliah,

Section 41 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 empowers any police officer to arrest
any person, without an order from a magistrate or without a warrant — ‘“(a) who has been
concerned in any cognizable offence, or against whom a reasonable complaint has been
made, or credible information has been received, or a reasonable suspicion exists, of his
having been so concerned; or (b) who has in his possession without lawful excuse, the
burden of proving which excuse shall lie on such person, any implement of house-
breaking; or ... (d) in whose possession anything is found which may reasonably be
suspected to be stolen property and who may reasonably be suspected of having
committed an offence with reference to such thing. Sub-section (2) vests the power to
arrest any person specified in section 109 and 110 of the Code in any officer in-charge of
the police station. Section 46 prescribes the mode of arrest, while Section 47empowers
any police officer to search any place where he has reason to believe that any person to be
arrested has entered into, or is within that place. Section 50 of course creates an
obligation on police officer arresting a person without warrant to communicate to the
person forthwith full particulars of the offence for which he is arrested or other grounds
for such arrest. Section 51 empowers the police officer to search a person arrested.
Section 53 and 54 provide for examination of the accused by a medical practitioner at the
request of the police officer and at the request of the arrested person respectively. Section
56 and 57 (as well as section 50) which have been enacted to accord with the protection
provided by clause | of article 22 of the Constitution provide that the police officer
arresting a person without warrant shall produce him before a magistrate as soon as
possible, and without unnecessary delay, and that such period of arrest shall not exceed
24 hours exclusive of the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to the
magistrate’s court. There are several other provisions of law both in the Code of Criminal
Procedure and several other enactments which empower the police officer to arrest a

person without a warrant.
40

2. The power to arrest a person without a warrant on reasonable suspicion or under the
belief that he is concerned in any cognizable offence is an awesome power vested in one
of the civil services — probably the only armed civil service in our polity. Inasmuch as this
power, vast as it is, is liable to misuse and has been very often misused, the Supreme
Court and the High Courts have, on several occasions, explained the true content and
spirit of the said provisions and have laid down the guidelines governing and regulating
the exercise of the said power. Even so, the misuse and abuse of the said power remains
practically unabated. Several instances have come to light where there has been a gross
misuse of the said power to the great detriment of the life and liberty of the citizens.
Indeed, a certain section of the public holds the view that this power requires to be
drastically curtailed. According to them the power to arrest should be restricted to major
crimes like murder, dacoity and to habitual offenders and that in all other cases the arrest
can be effected by the police only under a warrant of arrest issued by the court. There is,
of course, the other view that the rising crime rate makes it necessary to vest such