miscellaneous offences. The total number of persons arrested by way of preventive action
“i.e. under sections 107, 109, 110 of CrPC and sections 56, 57, 122 & 124 of Bombay
Police Act and under section 93 of the Prohibition Act” is a total of 1,89,722. In other
words, the preventive arrests are far higher in number than the arrests made for
committing substantive offences.
We must however refer to the letter of the Addl. DGP (CID) Crimes, GS Ahmedabad,
Shri G.C. Raizar, dated 8.10.1999 in as much as it contains certain useful information and
suggestions. Para | of the letter says that the power to arrest without warrant in
cognizable offences falling under parts | to 5 of the IPC should continue to be available
to police officers. Para 2 says that while the power of arrest is wide ranging, they have to
be exercised in such a manner as to avoid unnecessary harassment to the people. After the
judgment of the Supreme Court in D.K. Basu, it is said, the abuse of the said power has
drastically come down. Paras 3 & 4 state that the police should have the power to arrest
without warrant where the offence is committed in their presence and also where a large
quantity of stolen property, contraband goods or illicit weapons etc. are found in the
custody of a person. Para 5 says that the power of arrest without warrant should be
available to police only in important cases. Paras 6, 7 & 8 may be extracted in full having
regard to their relevance.

“6. As mentioned above, police should not have unlimited powers of arrest but at

the same time looking to the present social structure and ground realities, this may

cause dissatisfaction among the public especially in view of the following reasons:
21

1(a) If somebody commits an offence and police does not arrest him immediately,
people may have their own presumption about the police credibility with regard to
the effective working of the police force particularly, when the process of
obtaining a warrant is not so simple and easy. It is an undisputable fact that, under
the present system, obtaining of a warrant will take long time in most of the cases.
2(b) Except in very serious cases, the accused person should be arrested and
produced before the court only at the time of charge-sheeting the case in the Court
of Law, as is being done at present by the CBI and anti-corruption agencies. (?
sic.).

37. The Committee is of the view that more and more powers are being given to the

police under various social and economic laws including the power of arrest. This

should also be reviewed in the light of increasing allegations of misuse of power by

the law enforcement agencies.

48. It is also felt that the unlimited power of arrest given to the police under section

151 CrPC also needs to be reviewed.”

The suggestions do merit consideration.
1.13.5 ANDHRA PRADESH
In the State of AP, the district of Medak was chosen as a test case for study in the State. The Committee
constituted for the purpose has made the following relevant observations while furnishing the relevant
statistics. They are:
11) Only in about 40% of the cases, charge-sheets are filed within the stipulated time
limit of ninety days. Frequently the IOs seek extension of judicial remand of the
accused. The IOs have to be educated in the need for expeditious completion of
investigation and filing of charge-sheets.
22