While the break-up between arrests made under section 151 and sections 107 to 110 is
not given, we have to recognize that there is a qualitative difference between
them.

2. The percentage of arrests in bailable offences is unusually large ranging from 30% to
more than 80%.

The material furnished does not show in how many cases of arrest in bailable offences,
the accused were immediately released on bail by the Police and in how many
cases, they were detained in custody and if detained, for how long. Figures of
accused in bailable cases, who remained in custody/bail for their inability to
furnish the bail, are also not furnished. Only the State of A.P. refers to this aspect
without, of course, furnishing the number of accused so remaining in jails.

3. The percentage of undertrial prisoners in jails is unusually large.

The reasons for this may be the delays in concluding the trials in criminal courts, the
rigidity of the present law of bail and in some cases, the inability of the accused to
furnish bail. In this connection, a fact which has been brought to our notice by a

retired DGP relates to the casualness with which
28

the rights of the prisoners are being dealt with by the jail authorities as well as the
criminal courts. The Supreme Court directed in two cases ‘Common Cause, A
Registered Society’ v. UOI ((1996) 4 SCC 33) and ‘Common Cause, A Registered
Society’ v. UOI (1996 (6) SCC 775) that undertrial prisoners whose cases have
been pending beyond a particular period should be enlarged on bail or on personal
bond. These directions applied not only to cases pending on the dates of those
orders but were also effective prospectively. As and when the case of a particular
prisoner fell within one or the other direction given in those cases, he has to be
released. For this purpose, both the criminal courts and the jail authorities should
be vigilant and cooperate with each other. They must constantly monitor the facts
of each undertrial prisoner. But this is not being done either because jail
authorities do not furnish full and relevant particulars or because the court also
does not look into these matters. This may be an additional contributing factor.

4. Many of the undertrial prisoners who were granted bail are unable to avail of the said
facility because of their inability to furnish sureties or to comply with the
conditions for release.

This is a phenomenon which is digging the Indian jails since long number of years in
spite of a number of judgments of the Supreme Court.

5. The number of arrests for petty offences is substantial, if not more than the arrests
made for serious offences.

This is a serious problem which calls for our attention. It is probably this factor which
made the Police Commissions to observe that a large number of arrests are
unnecessary.

6. While there is no clarity about the percentage of convictions in the particulars
furnished by various States, it is clear beyond doubt that the percentage of
conviction is very low in many of the States.

This is a very grave problem in our country. In some States like U.P., no trial is allowed
to take place until one or more important witnesses are won

 

29