11) The case involves a grave offence like murder, dacoity, robbery, rape etc., and
it is necessary to arrest the accused and bring his movements under restraint to
infuse confidence among the terror stricken victims.

22) The accused is likely to abscond and evade the processes of law.

33) The accused is given to violent behaviour and is likely to commit further
offences unless his movements are brought under restraint.

44) The accused is a habitual offender and unless kept in custody he is likely to
commit similar offences again.

It would be desirable to insist through departmental instructions that a police
officer making an arrest should also record in the case diary the reasons for
making the arrest, thereby clarifying his conformity to the specified guidelines....”

It would equally be relevant to quote para 24, which reads as follows:

“The above guidelines are merely the incidents of personal liberty guaranteed
under the Constitution of India. No arrest can be made because it is lawful for the
Police Officer to do so. The existence of the power to arrest is one thing. The
justification for the exercise of it is quite another. The Police Officer must be able
to justify the arrest apart from his power to do so. Arrest and detention in police
lock-up of a person can cause incalculable harm to the reputation and self-esteem
of a person. No arrest can be made in a routine manner on a mere allegation of
commission of an offence made against a person. It would be prudent for a Police
Officer in the interest of protection of the constitutional rights of a citizen and
perhaps in his own interest that no arrest should be made without a reasonable
satisfaction reached after some

investigation as to the genuineness and bona fides of a complaint and a reasonable
belief both as to the person’s complicity and even so as to the need to effect arrest.
Denying a person of his liberty is a serious matter. The recommendations of the
Police Commission merely reflect the constitutional concomitants of the
fundamental right to personal liberty and freedom. A person is not liable to arrest
merely on the suspicion of complicity in an offence. There must be some
reasonable justification in the opinion of the officer effecting the arrest that such
arrest is necessary and justified. Except in heinous offences, an arrest must be
avoided if a police officer issues notice to person to attend the Station House and
not to leave Station without permission would do.”

The ultimate directions given, contained in paras 26 to 29, read as follows:

“These rights are inherent in Articles 21 and 22(1) of the Constitution and require
to be recognized and scrupulously protected. For effective enforcement of these
fundamental rights, we issue the following requirements:

11. An arrested person being held in custody is entitled, if he so requests to have
one friend relative or other person who is known to him or likely to take an
interest in his welfare told as far as is practicable that he has been arrested and
where he is being detained.

22. The Police Officer shall inform the arrested person when he is brought to the
police station of this right.