possession of stolen property “and who may be reasonably suspected _of having
committed an offence with reference to such thing.” What a wide discretion? Why, take
clause (a) itself. The situations covered by it are: (i) a person who is “concerned in any
cognizable offence”, (ii), a person against whom a reasonable complaint is made that he
is “concerned in a cognizable offence”; (iii) a person against whom “credible
information” is received showing that he is “concerned in any cognizable offence” and
(iv) a person who is reasonably suspected _of being “concerned in any cognizable
offence”. The generality of language and the consequent wide discretion vesting in police
officers is indeed enormous — and that has been the very source of abuse and misuse. The
qualifying words “reasonable”, “credible” and “reasonably” in the Section mean nothing

in practice. They have become redundant; in effect.
4

1.5 Wider powers of arrest under section 151, CrPC.- Added to these provisions are the
preventive provisions in the Code of Criminal Procedure which empower the police to
arrest persons. Section 151 empowers a police officer to arrest any person, without orders
from a Magistrate and without warrant, “if it appears to such officer” that such person is
designing to commit a cognizable offence and that the commission of offence cannot be
prevented otherwise. We do not think it necessary to emphasise the width of the power. It
may be true that the satisfaction of the police officer contemplated by the expression “if it
appears to such officer” is not subjective but is objective but in India, police officers
making a wrongful arrest whether under section 41 or 151, are seldom proceeded against
— much less punished. There are too many risks involved in doing so.

1.6 Large number of persons arrested under sections 107 to 110, CrPC.- There is yet
another category viz., sections 107 to 110 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. These
sections empower the Magistrate to call upon a person, in situations/circumstances stated
therein, to execute a bond to keep peace or to be on good behaviour. These provisions do
not empower a police officer to arrest such persons. Yet, the fact remains (a fact borne
out by the facts and figures referred to hereinafter) that large number of persons are
arrested under these provisions as well. And we are speaking of vast discretion not in a
civil service officer but in a member of armed force though technically speaking, it is also
a civil service.

1.7 Constitutional protection.- Clause (1) of Article 22 of the Constitution which is one of
the fundamental rights in Part III, declares that “no person who is arrested shall be
detained in custody without having informed, as soon as maybe, on the grounds for such
arrest nor shall he be denied the right to consult and to be defended by a legal practitioner
of his choice.” Clause (2) of Article 22 says that every person arrested and detained in
custody shall be produced before the nearest magistrate within a period of 24 hours of
such arrest excluding of course the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest
to the court of magistrate. The clause further

5

declares that no such person shall be detained in custody beyond the said period without
the authority of a magistrate. Clause (3) of Article 22 however provides that clauses (1)
and (2) shall not apply to an enemy-alien or to a person who has been arrested under any
law providing for preventive detention.

1.8 Misuse of power of arrest.- Notwithstanding the safeguards contained in the Code of
Criminal Procedure and the Constitution referred to above, the fact remains that the
power of arrest is wrongly and illegally exercised in a large number of cases all over the