the arrests were either unnecessary or unjustified and that such unjustified police
action accounted for 43.2% of the expenditure of the jails. The said Commission
in its Third Report at page 31 observed thus:

“Tt is obvious that a major portion of the arrests were connected with very minor
prosecutions and cannot, therefore, be regarded as quite necessary from the point
of view of crime prevention. Continued detention in jail of the persons so arrested
has also meant avoidable expenditure on their maintenance. In the above period it
was estimated that 43.2 per cent of the expenditure in the connected jails was over
such prisoners only who in the ultimate analysis need not have been arrested at
all.”.... (The figures given in the Report of the National Police Commission are
more than two decades old. Today, if anything, the position is worse.)

The Royal Commission suggested restrictions on the power of arrest on
the basis of the ‘necessity of principle’. The two main objectives of this principle
are that police can exercise powers only in those cases in which it was genuinely
necessary to enable them to execute their duty to prevent the Commission of
offences, to investigate crime. The Royal Commission was of the view that such
restrictions would diminish the use of arrest and produce more uniform use of
powers. The Royal Commission Report on Criminal Procedure — Sir Cyril Philips,
at page 45 said:

“.... We recommend that detention upon arrest for an offence should continue
only on one or more of the following criteria;

la) the person’s unwillingness to identify himself so that a summons may be
served upon him;

2b) the need to prevent the continuation or repetition of that offence;

3c) the need to protect the arrested person himself or other persons or property;
4d) the need to secure or preserve evidence of or relating to that offence or to
obtain such evidence from the suspect by questioning him; and

5e) the likelihood of the person failing to appear at court to answer any charge
made against him.”

The Royal Commission in the above-said Report at page 46 also
suggested:
“To help to reduce the use of arrest we would also propose the introduction here
of a scheme that is used in Ontario enabling a police officer to issue what is called
an ‘appearance notice’. That procedure can be used to obtain attendance at the
police station without resorting to arrest provided a power to arrest exists, for
example to be finger-printed or to participate in an identification parade. It could
also be extended to attendance for interview at a time convenient both to the
suspect and to the police officer investigating the case....”

In India, Third Report of the National Police Commission at page 32 also
suggested:
“...An arrest during the investigation of a cognizable case maybe considered
justified in one or other of the following circumstances: