so required. In case the name and residence of such person cannot be ascertained within

24 hours from the date of arrest or if
2

such person fails to execute a bond as required, he shall be forwarded to the nearest
magistrate having jurisdiction.

1.3 Section 43 speaks of a situation where an arrest can be made by a private person and
the procedure to be followed on such arrest. Section 44 deals with arrest by a magistrate.
Section 45 protects the members of the Armed Forces from being arrested under sections
41 to 44. Section 46 sets out the manner in which the arrest should be made and section
47 enables the police officer to enter a place if he has reason to believe that the person to
be arrested has entered into that place or is within that place. Section 48 empowers the
police officers to persue the offenders into any place in India beyond their jurisdiction.
Section 49 however provides that “the person arrested shall not be subjected to more
restraint than is necessary to prevent his escape”. Section 50 (which corresponds to clause
(1) of Article 22 of the Constitution) creates an obligation upon the police officer to
communicate to the person arrested full particulars of the offence for which he is arrested
or other grounds for such arrest forthwith. It also provides that where a person is arrested
for a bailable offence without a warrant, the police officer shall inform the person arrested
that he is entitled to be released on bail and that he may arrange for sureties on his behalf.
Section 51 provides for search of arrested person while section 52 empowers the police
officer to seize offensive weapons from the arrested person. Sections 53 and 54 provide
for medical examination of the arrested person at the request of the police officer or at the
request of the arrested person, as the case may be. Section 55 prescribes the procedure to
be followed when a police officer deputes his subordinate to arrest a person without
warrant. Section 56 (which corresponds to clause (2) of Article 22) of the Constitution,
provides that the person arrested shall not be kept in the custody of a police officer for a
longer period than is reasonable and that in any event such period shall not exceed 24
hours exclusive of the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to the
magistrate’s court. Of course if the magistrate permits the police officer to keep such
person in his custody, he can do so beyond the period of 24 hours. Section 58 casts an
obligation upon the

3

officers in charge of police station to report to the specified authorities of arrests made
without warrant within their jurisdiction and of the fact whether such persons have been
admitted to bail or not. Section 59 says that no person arrested by a police officer shall be
discharged except on his own bond or bail or under the special order of the magistrate.
Section 60, which is the last section in the chapter, empowers the person having the
lawful custody to pursue and retake the arrested person if he escapes or is rescued from
his custody.

1.4 Practical aspects of sections 41 and 42, CrPC.- A reading of the above provisions and,
in particular, of Sections 41 and 42 shows the width of the power of arrest vested in
police officers. Take for example, the ground in clause (b) of Section 41. It empowers a
police officer to arrest a person who is in possession of “any implement of house
breaking” and the burden is placed upon that person to satisfy that possession of such
implement is not without “lawful excuse”. What does an “implement of house breaking”
mean? Any iron/steel rod or any implement used by way-side repairers of punctured tyres
can also be used for house breaking. Similarly, clause (d). Any person found in