country. Very often this power is utilized to extort monies and other valuable property or
at the instance of an enemy of the person arrested. Even in case of civil disputes, this
power is being resorted to on the basis of a false allegation against a party to a civil
dispute at the instance of his opponent. The vast discretion given by the CrPC to arrest a
person even in the case of a bailable offence (not only where the bailable offence is
cognizable but also where it is non-cognizable) and the further power to make preventive
arrests (e.g. under section 151 of the CrPC and the several city police enactments), clothe
the police with extraordinary power which can easily be abused. Neither there is any in-
house mechanism in the police department to check such misuse or abuse nor does the
complaint of such misuse or abuse to higher police officers bear fruit except in some
exceptional cases. We must repeat that we are not dealing with the vast discretionary
powers of a mere civil service simpliciter, we are dealing with the vast discretionary
powers of the members of a service which is provided with firearms, which are becoming
more and more sophisticated with each passing day (which is technically called a civil
service for the purposes of Service Jurisprudence) and whose acts touch upon the liberty
and freedom of the citizens of this country and not merely their entitlements and
properties. This is a civil service which is being increasingly militarized, no doubt, to
meet the emerging exigencies.

1.9 Balancing of societal interests and protection of rights of the accused.- We are not

unaware that crime rate is going up in our country for various reasons which
6

need not be recounted here. Terrorism, drugs and organized crime have become so acute
that special measures have become necessary to fight them not only at the national level
but also at the international level. We also take note of the fact that quite a number of
policemen risk their lives in discharge of their duties and that they are specially targeted
by the criminal and terrorist gangs. We recognize that in certain situations e.g., like the
one obtaining in Kashmir today, a literal compliance with several legal and constitutional
safeguards may not be practicable but we must also take note of and provide for the
generality of the situation all over the country and not be deflected by certain specific,
temporary situations. We must also take note of the fact that very often it is the poor who
suffer most at the hands of Police. Their poverty itself makes them suspects. This was
said, though from a different angle, by George Bernard Shaw. He said “poverty is crime”.
But nowadays, even middle classes and other well-to-do people, who do not have access
to political power-wielders, also are becoming targets of Police excesses. We recognize
that ensuring a balance between societal interest in peace and protection of the rights of
the accused is a difficult one but it has to be done. We also recognize the fundamental
significance of the Human Rights, which are implicit in Part II of our Constitution and of
the necessity to preserve, protect and promote the Rule of Law which constitutes the
bedrock of our constitutional system.

1.10 Guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court. The effort of the courts, and in
particular of the Supreme Court over the last more than two decades has been to
circumscribe the vast discretionary power vested by law in Police by imposing several
safeguards and to regulate it by laying down numerous guidelines and by subjecting the
said power to several conditionalities. The effort throughout has been to prevent its abuse
while leaving it free to discharge the functions entrusted to the Police. While it is not
necessary to refer to all of them for the purpose of this working paper, it would be
sufficient if we refer to a few of them (which indeed reaffirm and recapitulate the