person who has been informed of the arrest and the names and particulars of the
police officials in whose custody the arrestee is.

57. The arrestee should, where he so requests, be also examined at the time of his
arrest and major and minor injuries, if any, present on his/her body, must be
recorded at that time. The “Inspection Memo” must be signed both by the arrestee
and the police officer effecting the arrest and its copy provided to the arrestee.

68. The arrestee should be subjected to medical examination by a trained doctor
every 48 hours during his detention in custody by a doctor on the panel of
approved doctors appointed by Director, Health Services of the concerned State or
Union Territory, Director, Health Services should prepare such a panel for all
Tehsils and Districts as well.

79. Copies of all the documents including the memo of arrest, referred to above,
should be sent to the Ilaqa Magistrate for his record.

110. The arrestee may be permitted to meet his lawyer during interrogation,
though not throughout the interrogation.

211. A police control room should be provided at all district and State
headquarters, where information regarding the arrest and the place of custody of
the arrestee shall be communicated by the officer causing the arrest, within 12
hours of effecting the arrest and at the police control room it should be displayed
on a conspicuous police board.

Failure to comply with the requirements hereinabove mentioned shall
apart from rendering the concerned official liable for departmental action, also
render him liable to be punished for contempt of Court and the proceedings for
contempt of Court may be instituted in any High Court of the country, having
territorial jurisdiction over the matter.

The requirements, referred to above flow from Articles 21 and 22(1) of the
Constitution and need to be strictly followed. These would apply with equal force
to the other governmental agencies also to which a reference has been made
earlier.

These requirements are in addition to the constitutional and statutory
safeguards and do not detract from various other directions given by the Courts
from time to time in connection with the safeguarding of the rights and dignity of
the arrestee.

The requirements mentioned above shall be forwarded to the Director
General of Police and the Home Secretary of every State/Union Territory and it
shall be their obligation to circulate the same to every police station under their
charge and get the same notified at every police station at a conspicuous place. It
would also be useful and serve larger interest to broadcast the requirements on the
All India Radio besides being shown on the National Network of Doordarshan
and by publishing and distributing pamphlets in the local language containing
these requirements for information of the general public. Creating awareness
about the rights of the arrestee would in our opinion be a step in the right direction
to combat the evil of custodial crime