PART III
PROPOSALS TO AMEND THE CODE OF

CRIMINAL PROCEDURE, 1973

3.1 The Code of Criminal Procedure classifies the offences mentioned in the IPC into
four broad categories, namely, (1) bailable and non-cognizable offences; (2) bailable and
cognizable offences; (3) non-bailable-cognizable offences and (4) non-bailable-non-
cognizable offences (e.g., sections 466, 467 (first part), 476, 477 and 505 (first part) etc.)
(There is a fifth category of offences e.g., sections 116 to 120, where the cognizability
and bailability/non-bailability depends upon the nature of the main crime. This category
travels along with the main crime and will be dealt with accordingly.) In the light of the
recommendations of the Third Report of National Police Commission and the ratio and
the spirit underlying the decisions in Joginder Kumar and D.K. Basu and the decisions of
the Supreme Court on the significance of personal liberty guaranteed by Article 21, a
question arises whether would it not be advisable to amend the Criminal Procedure Code
providing that:

1(1) No person shall be arrested for offences which are at present treated as

bailable and non-cognizable; in other words, a court shall not issue an arrest

warrant in respect of these offences. Only a summons to be served through a court

process-server or by other means (but not

 

30

lthrough a policeman) may be issued. For this purpose, the very expression
“bailable” may have to be changed. The expression “bailable” implies an arrest
and an automatic bail by the police/court. There appears no reason to arrest a
person accused of what is now categorized as bailable- non-cognizable offences. It
is true that in case of non-cognizable offences, police cannot arrest without
warrant as would be evident from clause (a) of section 41 but there are other
clauses in section 41 which may empower this. For example, clause (b) provides
that any person found in possession of “any implement of house breaking” is
liable to be arrested unless he proves that there is lawful excuse for such
possession. Instead of calling/categorizing them as “bailable offences”, they can
simply be categorized as non-cognizable offences and it must be expressly
provided that no arrest shall be made by the police in case of these offences and
no court shall issue an arrest warrant either. The court may issue a summons to be
served in the manner indicated above. Annexure-III to this consultation paper sets
out such offences, along with a description of the offences, for easy reference.

2(2) In respect of offences at present treated as bailable and cognizable
(mentioned in Annexure-IV), no arrest shall be made, but what may be called an
“appearance notice” be served upon the person directing him to appear at the
Police Station or before the magistrate as and when called upon to do so, unless
there are strong grounds to believe - which should be reduced into writing and
communicated to the higher Police officials as well as to the concerned magistrate
- that the accused is likely to disappear and that it would be very difficult to