dacoity, robbery, rape and offences against the State, the bailable provisions should be
made liberal and bail should be granted almost as a matter of course except where it is
apprehended that the accused may disappear and evade arrest or where it is necessary to
prevent him from committing further offences. The provisions in Cr.PC relating to grant
of bail may be amended suitably.
3.8 No arrest or detention for questioning.- It is also necessary to provide that no person
shall be arrested or detained by police merely for the purpose of questioning.
35)
Such arrest or detention, it is obvious, amounts to unwarranted and unlawful interference
with the personal liberty guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution.
3.9 Ensuring the safety and well being of the detainee is the responsibility of the detaining
authority.- It should also be provided by law expressly that once a person is arrested, it is
the responsibility of the arresting and detaining authority to ensure the safety and well
being of the detainee. The recommendation of National Police Commission regarding
mandatory medical examination of the arrested person deserves implementation. In this
connection, the decision of A.P. High Court in Challa Ramkonda Reddy v. State of A.P.
(AIR 1989 AP 235) — which has recently affirmed by the Supreme Court in AIR 2000 SC
2083 - and the examples given therein, wherein the State would be liable for damages for
the negligent or indifferent conduct of police/jail authorities should be kept in mind. To
put briefly, take a case where a person is arrested for simple theft or simple rioting; he is a
heart patient; he is not allowed to take his medicines with him at the time of his arrest and
no medicines are provided to him in spite of his asking and he dies. Or a case, where such
a person (though carrying his medicines) suffers a heart attack and no reasonably prompt
steps are taken for providing medical aid to him by the concerned authorities and he dies.
It is obvious that had he not been arrested, his family and friends would have taken care
of him. Should he die for want of medical help, only because he has been arrested and
detained for a minor offence. It would be too big a punishment. In such cases, State
would be liable for damages.
3.10 Custody record to be maintained at every police station.- The law should also
provide that every police station maintain a custody record (which shall be open to
inspection by members of Bar and the representatives of the registered NGOs interested
in Human Rights) containing the following particulars among others:

la) name and address of the person arrested/detained;

 

36
1b) name, rank and badge number of the arresting officer and any accompanying
officers;
2c) the time and date of arrest and when was the person brought to police station;
3d) reasons/grounds on which arrest was effected;
4e) was any property recovered from or at the instance of the person
arrested/detained; and
5f) names of the persons (friends or relatives of the person arrested) who were
informed of the arrest.

It may be clarified that the safeguards mentioned above are in addition to those
required to be provided by the decision of the Supreme Court in D.K. Basu_which must
be given legislative recognition by making necessary amendments.