3.11 Tortious liability of State.- Another aspect, which needs notice in this behalf is the
decision of the Supreme Court in Kasturlal v. State of U.P. (1965 SC 1039). In this case,
the gold recovered from the person arrested was kept in the Malkhana of the police
station but was misappropriated by the concerned police officer. The person arrested was
released but the gold could not be restored to him. When the person filed a suit for
recovery of the gold or its value, he was non-suited by the Supreme Court on the ground
that no suit lies in respect of tortious acts of government servants which are relatable to
sovereign powers of the State. This was so held relying upon Article 300 of the
Constitution which preserves the right and liability of the State to sue and be sued
obtaining prior to the commencement of the Constitution. Indeed, Article 300 says that
the said rule shall continue until a law is made by the Parliament or the State Legislature,
as the case may be, laying down the situations in which the State shall be liable for the
tortious acts of its servants and where it shall not be liable on the ground that that act was
done in exercise of the sovereign powers of State. The distinction between sovereign and
non-sovereign

Bu

functions also needs to be clarified in view of the conflict between the judgments of the
Supreme Court.

3.12 Strict compliance with section 172, CrPC called for.- Sub-section (1) of section 172
of the Code of Criminal Procedure requires that (1) “every police officer making an
investigation under this chapter shall day-by-day enter his proceedings in the
investigation in a diary setting forth the time at which the information reached him, the
time at which he began and closed his investigation, the place or places visited by him
and a statement of the circumstances ascertained through his investigation”. Inasmuch as
such diary would also record and reflect the time, place and circumstances of arrest, it is
necessary that the provisions of this sub-section should be strictly complied with. In this
behalf, however, it would be relevant to notice the following observations of the Supreme
Court in Shamshul Kanwar v. State (AIR 1995 SC 1748) where the court pointed out the
vagueness prevailing in the country in the matter of maintaining the diary under section
172. The court referred, in the first instance, to the fact that in every State there are Police
Regulations/Police Standing Orders prescribing the manner in which such diaries are to
be maintained and that there is no uniformity among them. The court pointed out that in
some States like Uttar Pradesh, the diary under section 172 is known as ‘special diary’ or
“case diary’ and in some other States like Andhra Pradesh and Tamilnadu, it is known as
“case diary’. The basis for distinction between ‘special diary’ and ‘case diary’, the court
pointed out, may owe its origin to the words “police diary or otherwise” occurring in
section 162 CrPC. The court also pointed out that the use of expression “case diary” in
A.P. Regulations and in the Regulations of some other States like J&K and Kerala may
indicate that it is something different than a “general diary”. In some other States there
appear to be Police Standing Orders directing that the diary under section 172 be
maintained in two parts, first part relating to steps taken during the course of investigation
by the police officer with particular reference to time at which police received the
information and the further steps taken during the investigation and the second part

containing statement of circumstances
38

v. (1979 Cr.L.J. 1477)). Such an amendment would also go to ensure that the time, place
and circumstances of the arrest of an accused are also properly recorded and reflected by