directions and guidelines contained in earlier decisions). In Joginder Kumar v. State of
U.P. (AIR 1994 SC 1349), the power of arrest and its
7

exercise has been dealt with at length. It would be appropriate to refer to certain
perceptive observations in the judgment:
“The horizon of human rights is expanding. At the same time, the crime rate is
also increasing. Of late, this court has been receiving complaints about violation
of human rights because of indiscriminate arrests. How are we to strike a balance
between the two?

A realistic approach should be made in this direction. The law of arrest is
one of balancing individual rights, liberties and privileges, on the one hand, and
individual duties, obligations and responsibilities on the other; of weighing and
balancing the rights, liberties and privileges of the single individual and those of
individuals collectively; of simply deciding what is wanted and where to put the
weight and the emphasis; of deciding which comes first — the criminal or society,
the law violator or the law abider; of meeting the challenge which Mr. Justice
Cardozo so forthrightly met when he wrestled with a similar task of balancing
individual rights against society’s rights and wisely held that the exclusion rule
was bad law, that society came first, and that the criminal should not go free
because the constable blundered.

The quality of a nation’s civilisation can be largely measured by the
methods it uses in the enforcement of criminal law.”

This court in Smt. Nandini Satpathy v. P.L. Dani AIR 1978 SC 1025 at

page 1032, quoting Lewis Mayers, stated:
“To strike the balance between the needs of law enforcement on the one hand and
the protection of the citizen from oppression and injustice at the hands of the law-
enforcement machinery on the other is a perennial problem of statecraft.” The
pendulum over the years has swung to the right.

Again in para 21, at page 1033, it has been observed:

 

“We have earlier spoken of the conflicting claims requiring reconciliation.
Speaking pragmatically, there exists a rivalry between societal interest in effecting
crime detection and constitutional rights which accused individuals possess.
Emphasis may shift, depending on circumstances, in balancing these interests as
has been happening in America. Since Miranda ((1966) 334 US 436) there has
been retreat from stress on protection of the accused and gravitation towards
society’s interest in convicting law-breakers. Currently, the trend in the American
jurisdiction according to legal journals is that ‘respect for (constitutional)
principles is eroded when they leap their proper bounds to interfere with the
legitimate interests of society in enforcement of its laws.... (Couch v. United
States (1972) 409 US 322, 336). Our constitutional perspective has, therefore, to
be relative and cannot afford to be absolutist, especially when torture technology,
crime escalation and other social variables affect the application of principles in
producing humane justice.”

The National Police Commission in its Third Report referring to the quality of
arrests by the Police in India mentioned power of arrest as one of the chief sources
of corruption in the police. The report suggested that, by and large, nearly 60% of