33. An entry shall be required to be made in the Diary as to who was informed of
the arrest. These protections from power must be held to flow from Articles 21
and 22(1) and enforced strictly.

It shall be the duty of the Magistrate, before whom the arrested person is
produced, to satisfy himself that these requirements have been complied with.

The above requirements shall be followed in all cases of arrest till legal
provisions are made in this behalf. These requirements shall be in addition to the
rights of the arrested persons found in the various Police Manuals.

These requirements are not exhaustive. The Directors General of Police of
all the States in India shall issue necessary instructions requiring due observance
of these requirements. In addition, departmental instruction shall also be issued
that a police officer making an arrest should also record in the case diary, the
reasons for making the arrest.”

1.10.1 The next decision which may be usefully referred to is D.K. Basu v. State of West
Bengal (AIR 1997 SC 610). It would be sufficient if we quote paras 36 to 40 which
contain the final directions issued in the said decision. They read as follows:

“We, therefore, consider it appropriate to issue the following requirements to be
followed in all cases of arrest or detention, till legal provisions are made in that
behalf, as preventive measures:

11. The police personnel carrying out the arrest and handling the interrogation of
the arrestee should bear accurate, visible and clear identification and name tags
with their designations. The particulars of all such police personnel who handle
interrogation of the arrestee must be recorded in a register.

22. That the police officer carrying out the arrest of the arrestee shall prepare a
memo of arrest at the time of arrest and such memo shall be attested by at least
one witness, who may be either a member of the family of the arrestee or a
respectable person of the locality from where the arrest is made. It shall also be
countersigned by the arrestee and shall contain the time and date of arrest.

33. A person who has been arrested or detained and is being held in custody in a
police station or interrogation center or other lock-up,

Ishall be entitled to have one friend or relative or other person known to him or
having interest in his welfare being informed, as soon as practicable, that he has
been arrested and is being detained at the particular place unless the attesting
witness of the memo of arrest is himself such a friend or a relative of the arrestee.
24. The time, place of arrest and venue of custody of an arrestee must be notified
by the police where the next friend or relative of the arrestee lives outside the
district or town through the Legal Aid Organisation in the District and the police
station of the area concerned telegraphically within a period of 8 to 12 hours after
the arrest.

35. The person arrested must be made aware of this right to have someone
informed of his arrest or detention as soon as he is put under arrest or is detained.
46. An entry must be made in the diary at the place of detention regarding the
arrest of the person which shall also disclose the name of the next friend of the