and bring in transparency and accountability. It is hoped that these

requirements would help to curb, if not totally eliminate, the use of questionable

methods during interrogation and investigation leading to custodial commission of

crimes.”
1.11 Need for providing statutory safeguards to prevent abuse _of power of arrest.-
Notwithstanding the above decisions — we may legitimately presume that the directions
and guidelines contained were duly published by respective Directors General of Police
of all the States and were brought to the notice of all the police officers — the complaints
of abuse of power of arrest still continue unabated. Several instances of such exercise
have come to the notice of each of us and to the notice of all responsible persons of the
society. The Law Commission, therefore, thought that something more needs to be done
to prevent the abuse and misuse of the power of arrest while at the same time not hurting
the societal interest in peace and law and order. Indeed, both the decisions referred to
above say expressly that the directions and guidelines issued/laid down therein are to be
followed “till legal provisions are made in that behalf.” It is, therefore, necessary to make
appropriate legal provisions not only incorporating the said guidelines/directions but also
making such changes in law as may be necessary to prevent abuse/misuse of the said
power while at the same time ensuring that interest of the society in maintenance of peace
and law and order is not jeopardized.
1.12 Empirical data collected on the relevant aspects of the law of arrest.- But before we
could think of any specific measures in that behalf, we thought it necessary to obtain
empirical data on the relevant aspects of the law of arrest so that it can form the basis for
devising the measures to be recommended by us. Accordingly, the Law Commission
wrote a letter dated 20.7.1999 (Annexure-I to this working paper), addressed to the
Chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission stating that the Law Commission
proposes to examine exhaustively the law relating to arrest and to suggest to the
Government and the Parliament
16
appropriate changes required in the aforementioned provisions and that to enable the Law
Commission to arrive at an appropriate conclusion, it must have relevant empirical data
from all over the country. Accordingly, we requested the NHRC, “to constitute a
committee of high police officials (retired or working) who shall select four districts in
the country as case study and find out the number of arrests made by the police in that
district in a given year without warrant, the number of arrests which were made without
registering the crime, the number of cases in which the person arrested was released
without filing a chargesheet and the length of his detention, the number of cases in which
chargesheets were filed and the number of cases in which the prosecution resulted in
conviction.” It was further stated in the said letter that “it would also be necessary to
categorise the offences in connection with which the persons were arrested, the period of
the detention in police and in judicial custody, the time taken for concluding the
prosecution against them and if a person is kept in detention, the number of occasions on
which he was not produced before the court on the dates of hearing. It would help us if
any other relevant or incidental details or data which the committee may think relevant is
also made available to us.” We stated that we would welcome any suggestions, ideas and
recommendations which such body may record on the subject keeping in view the
recommendations contained in the Police Commission Reports.