discretionary power in the police. These are all questions which we propose to examine
exhaustively and to suggest to the Government and the Parliament the appropriate
changes required in the aforesaid provisions and other like provisions in other
enactments. The law respecting bail shall also be a component of this study.
3. To enable us to arrive at a proper conclusion on the aforesaid question, we must have
empirical data collected by an expert body. In the course of discussions which I had with
you on Sunday, you had suggested that it would be possible for the Human Rights
Commission to constitute a committee of high police officials (retired or working), who
shall select four districts in the country as case studies and find out the number of arrests
made by the police in that district in a given year without warrant, the number of arrests
which were made without registering the crime, the number of cases in which the person
arrested was released without filing a charge-sheet and the length of his detention, the
number of cases in which charge-sheets were filed and the number of cases in which the
prosecution resulted in conviction. It would also be necessary to categorise the offences in
connection with which the persons were arrested, the period of the detention in police and
in judicial custody, the time taken for concluding the prosecution against them and if a
person is kept in detention, the number of occasions on which he was not produced before
the court on the dates of hearing. It would also help us if any other relevant and incidental
details and data, which the committee may think relevant, is also made available to us.
4. The Law Commission of India would be grateful if you can appoint an expert
committee and make data collected by them and findings recorded by them available to
us. We would also welcome any suggestions, ideas and recommendations which such
expert body may record on the above subject keeping in view the recommendations
contained in the Police Commission Reports.
41
With warm regards,
Yours sincerely,
Sd/-

(Justice B.P. Jeevan Reddy)
Shri Justice M.N. Venkatachaliah,
Chairperson,
National Human Rights Commission,
1“ Floor, Sardar Patel Bhawan,
Parliament Street,

New Delhi
42

ANNEXURE-I
STUDY OF ARRESTS