40 6. MAIN RESULTS

corresponding to a realizable representation is real. An irreducible character x is
real if and only if there is a non-zero G-invariant bilinear form on the representation
space V. A representation V of G is called orthogonal (symplectic) if there exists
a non-zero symmetric (skew-symmetric) bilinear form on V which is G-invariant. In
fact, an irreducible real character comes from a realizable representation if and only if
the representation V is orthogonal ({JL], Theorem 23.16). Hence our problem seems
to be directly related to the representation theory of G. For a semisimple algebraic
group, there exists an involution h in the center, which acts by 1 in an irreducible
self-dual representation if and only if the representation is orthogonal. For most of
the groups studied in this thesis, we prove that real semisimple elements are strongly
real. If one compares these results to the results proved in [Pr1] and [Pr2], these are
exactly the groups for which irreducible, self dual representations are orthogonal. For
more discussion and explicit references on the connection to representation theory we

refer the reader to Section 10.1.

6.1. Results in Classical Groups

Reality for classical groups over fields of characteristic not 2 has been studied in
[MVW] by Moeglin, Vignéras and Waldspurger.
The following result is due to Wonenburger ([W1], Theorem 1).

Proposition 6.1.1. An element of GL,,(k) is real if and only if it is strongly real
in GL,,(k).

However, a similar result is false for matrices over division algebras. In [E11] (Lemma
2 and Lemma 3) Ellers constructs an example of a simple transformation of a vector
space V over the real quaternion division algebra H, which is conjugate to its inverse
but is not strongly real. This is also evident by looking at the real quaternion division
algebra H = R.16 Rig R.j © R.ij where i,j,k have usual meanings. In the group
GL,(H), the element 7 is conjugate to its inverse by j which satisfies 7? = —1. The
only nontrivial element of GL,(H) which is an involution is —1 and hence 2 is not a

product of two involution in GL,(H). For SL,,(k), we prove,

Theorem 6.1.2. Let V be a vector space of dimension n over k. Lett € SL(V).
Suppose n #2 (mod 4). Then t is real in SL(V) if and only if t is strongly real in
SL(V).

We show by examples that the result fails when n = 2 (mod 4).