6.3. RESULTS IN ALGEBRAIC GROUPS 45
6.3. Results in Algebraic Groups

Motivated by several results obtained above we have investigated the structure
of real elements in general algebraic groups. We would like to mention the work of
Tiep and Zalesski (refer [TiZ]) in this connection. They look at a slightly different
question. They were interested in classifying groups in which all elements are real.
They have successfully classified ([TiZ], Theorem 1.2) finite quasi-simple groups in
which all elements are real. They also look at the question of all unipotent elements
being real in simple, simply connected algebraic group over a finite field. However, it

is worth mentioning a theorem about simple algebraic group proved in that paper.

Proposition 6.3.1. Let G be a simple algebraic group over an algebraically closed
field of characteristic p £ 0. All elements of G are real if and only if G is of type
Bn, Cn, Dan, Go, Fi, Ey or Eg.

We look to characterize real elements in somewhat the same class of groups considered
by Tiep and Zalesskii but over an arbitrary base field k (not just over algebraically
closed field). An element ¢ in a connected linear algebraic group G is called regular
if its centralizer Zg(t) has minimal dimension among all centralizers. An element is

called strongly regular if its centralizer in G is a maximal torus. We prove,

Theorem 6.3.2. Let G be a connected simple group of adjoint type defined over k.
Suppose the longest element wo of the Weyl group W of G with respect to a maximal
k-torus T acts by —1 on the roots. Lett € G(k) be a strongly regular element. Then t
is k-real in G(k) if and only if t is strongly k-real in G(k). Moreover, if T(k) contains

a strongly regular element, then every element of T(k) is strongly real in G(k).

We study the question for semisimple elements in groups over fields of cd(k) < 1 and

prove,

Theorem 6.3.3. Let k be a field with cd(k) <1. Let G be a simple adjoint group
defined over k. Suppose that the longest element wo in the Weyl group of G with
respect to a maximal torus T acts as —1 on the roots. Then every semisimple element
in G(k) is strongly real in G(k).

We devote next three chapters for the proofs of the theorems mentioned here.