CHAPTER 6
Main Results

In this chapter we discuss the main problem addressed in this thesis. We mention
known results and theorems proved in this thesis. Proof of the theorems will follow
in later chapters. The results proved in this thesis are titled “Theorem” in this
chapter. Results which were known are attributed to the respective author(s) with
label “Proposition”. I appologise for this convention, though limited to this chapter
only.

Let G be an algebraic group defined over a field k. It is desirable, from the
representation theoretic point of view, to study conjugacy classes of elements in G.
We call an element g € G real if there exists h € G such that hgh! = g-!. An
element g € G(k) is called k-real if there exists h € G(k) such that hgh! = gut.

We address the following problem in this thesis:
Problem: Characterize real elements of the group G(k).

An involution in G is an element g with g? = 1. Note that with our convention the
identity element is also an involution. An element in G is called strongly real if it

is a product of two involutions in G. We raise the following question here.
Problem: Let g € G(k) be a k-real element. Is g strongly k-real in G(k)?

Note that a strongly k-real element in G(k) is always k-real in G(k). Conversely,
a real element g € G(k) is strongly k-real if and only if there exists a conjugating
element in G(k) which is an involution, i.e., there exists t € G(k) with t? = 1 such
that tgt~! = g7!. This remark is very useful in investigating the structure of real
elements.

It is worth mentioning that the characterization of real elements depends on the
base field. We will give examples of elements in a group G of type G2 which are
not k-real but are strongly real over k. We note that every element of a conjugacy
class which contains a real element is real. Such a conjugacy class is called a real
conjugacy class. For finite groups, the number of real conjugacy classes is same
as the number of real irreducible characters. Let G be a finite group. A complex
representation of G is realizable if it is defined over R. It is obvious that a character

39