2.3. SEMISIMPLE ALGEBRAIC GROUPS 13
2.3. Semisimple Algebraic Groups

In this section we briefly recall the structure theory of semisimple algebraic groups.
A linear algebraic group G is diagonalizable if it is isomorphic to a closed subgroup
of some group D,, of diagonal matrices. A group T is a torus if it is isomorphic to
some D,,. Equivalently a torus is a connected commutative algebraic group consisting
of semisimple elements alone. A torus T is a k-torus if T is a group defined over k
and is a torus. A k-torus T is called k-split if T is k-isomorphic to some D,,. Tori
play an important role in the study of algebraic groups.

Let G be a connected linear algebraic group. A maximal torus of G is a torus

 

in G that is not strictly contained in another torus contained in G. We record some
important results here regarding tori in an algebraic group. Any two maximal tori
of G are conjugate ([Sp], Theorem 6.4.1). The dimension of a maximal torus in G
is called the rank of G. Also every semisimple element of G lies in a maximal torus
({Sp], Theorem 6.4.5). Now let G be a connected linear algebraic group defined over
a field k. Then G contains maximal tori defined over k ({Sp], Theorem 13.3.6) and
every semisimple element of G(k) lies in a maximal k-torus ([Sp], Corollary 13.3.8).
However, conjugacy of all maximal tori in G(k) is no longer true.

Let G be a connected linear algebraic group. A maximal closed, connected, solv-
able normal subgroup of G is called the radical, denoted as R(G), of G. We call a
group G semisimple if R(G) = (e). A maximal closed, connected, unipotent normal
subgroup of G is called the unipotent radical, denoted as R,(G), of G. In fact,
the maximal, closed, unipotent normal subgroup of R(G) is R(G), = Ru(G). The
group G is called reductive if the unipotent part of R(G) is trivial. For example
the group GL, is a reductive group with R(GL,) = Dn, the diagonal torus, whereas
SL, is a semisimple group. A torus is a reductive group which is not semisimple. Let
G be a reductive group defined over k. We say that G is split over k or k-split if
G contains a maximal k-torus which is k split. The group G is quasi-split if there
exists a Borel subgroup of G defined over k and anisotropic if none of its proper
parabolic subgroups is defined over k.

Let T be a maximal torus in G. Then the group W = W(G,T) = Ne(T)/Zc(T)
is finite and is called the Weyl group of G with respect to a fixed maximal torus
T. If the group G is reductive then Zg(T) = T ({Sp], Corollary 7.6.4) and in this
case the Weyl group W = Nc(T)/T. This group plays important role in the study of

structure of semisimple groups.