Acknowledgments

It gives me immense pleasure to acknowledge the support of many of my friends,
colleagues, family members and teachers, without whom I could not have imagined
he existence of this thesis. A large part of the work in this thesis was done at Harish-
Chandra Research Institute during my stay there. I wish to acknowledge the support
of the institute and its staff members for providing me with excellent facilities and
highly competitive work environment.

First, I would like to thank Prof. Maneesh Thakur, my thesis supervisor, for
his help and encouragement. He has been understanding, supportive, patient and
assionate throughout my association with him. I am indebted for my views and
knowledge of Mathematics to him which grew out of numerous discussions over the
years. I deeply appreciate his way of working, start from basics, and must say that

it has had a great influence on me. The questions in this thesis were suggested to me

 

by him.

At Harish-Chandra Research Institute, I had the opportunity to talk Mathematics
with several people. I give credit to Prof. Dipendra Prasad for growing my interest in
algebra. It was his graduate course and other courses on Algebraic Number Theory
and Algebraic Groups which fascinated me to choose the subject for my research. My
association with him dates back to the summers of my undergraduate years when I
was a visiting student at HRI. Even, till date, I do not let go in vain any opportunity
to discuss Mathematics with him. I also thank him for his remarks on my thesis
which helped to improve it tremendously. I owe my understanding of Mathematics to
many mathematicians at HRI, specially to Prof. S.D. Adhikari, Prof. Suryaramana,
Prof. C. 5. Dalawat, Prof. SatyaDeo, Prof. I.B.S. Passi, Prof. Ravi Kulkarni, Prof.
E. K. Narayanan, Dr. Shripad Garge, Dr. Ritumoni Sarma, Dr. Manoj Keshari and
Dr. A. V. Jayanthan. I learned mathematics from them and had influence on my
working style as well. I thank them for always being there to help me out with even
silly doubts. All of the students of School of Mathematics at HRI deserve a note
of appreciation for being enthusiastic about discussing mathematics with me. Mrs.
Seema Agrawal and Dr. Archana Tandon deserve salute from me. At times, I derived

v