6.2. RESULTS IN EXCEPTIONAL GROUPS 43

Theorem 6.1.13. Let (V,) be a hermitian space over K. Let t € U(V,) be a

semisimple element. Then, t is real in U(V,6) if and only if it is strongly real.
We also prove similar results for special unitary groups.

Theorem 6.1.14. Let t € SU(V,h) be semisimple. Suppose n # 2 (mod 4).
Then t is real in SU(V,h) if and only if it is strongly real.

Remark 6.1.15. We exhibit real unipotent elements in SU(V,6) which are not
strongly real in U(V,6).

6.2. Results in Exceptional Groups

We now begin the study of reality properties for exceptional groups. In this
thesis, we have tackled groups of type G» over fields of characteristic different from
2. We prove reality implies strong reality for all elements in these groups except
for unipotent elements over fields of characteristic 3. One expects similar results for
exceptional groups of type Eg and Fy as well, which is evident from Theorem 6.3.2
and Theorem 6.3.3. By consulting the character table of G over finite fields in [CR],
one sees that reality is not true for arbitrary elements of G2 (see also Theorem 8.4.6
and Theorem 8.4.7, in this thesis). Let G be a group of type G2 over a field k of

characteristic 4 2. We prove,

Theorem 6.2.1. In addition, if char(k) 4 3, every unipotent element in G(k) is
strongly real in G(k).

For a general clement in G(k), we prove,

Theorem 6.2.2. Let characteristic k # 2,3. Then, an element t € G(k) is real
in G(k) if and only if t is strongly real in G(k).

The assumption char(k) # 3 is needed only for the case of unipotents. Real semisim-
ple elements are strongly real in G(k) for any field k, char(k) # 2. We call a torus
in G indecomposable if it can not be written as a direct product of two subtori,
decomposable otherwise. We show that semisimple elements in decomposable tori
are always real (Theorem 8.1.9). We construct examples of indecomposable tori in G
containing non-real elements (Proposition 8.4.2 and Theorem 8.4.5).

We work with an explicit realization of a group of type G2 as the automorphism
group of an octonion algebra. It is known ({Se], Chapter III, Proposition 5, Corollary)

that for a group G of type Gz over k, there exists an octonion algebra € over k, unique