Notation

In this thesis we denote a field by k. We consider fields of characteristic not 2
unless stated otherwise. The notation k and k, denotes an algebraic closure and
separable closure of k respectively. The symbols Q, R, C will denote fields of rational,
real, complex numbers respectively. The symbol Z will denote the set of integers. We
denote by cd(k) the cohomological dimension of k.

We use G to denote an algebraic group and G(k) to denote the group of k-
rational points of G. Sometimes we abuse notation and denote the group of k points
of G by G. An algebraic group always means a linear algebraic group unless stated
otherwise. The connected component of G is denoted by G®. The Lie algebra of
G is denoted by g. An element g € G(k) is k-real if there exists t € G(k) such
that tgt-! = g~!. Let H be a subgroup of G. We denote the centralizer of H in
G by Ze(H) = {9 € G | gh = hg Vh © H} and the normalizer of H in G by
No(H) = {g € G| gHg"! = H}. The center of G is denoted by Z(G). The general
linear group is denoted by GL,,(k) and special linear group by SL,,(k). Orthogonal
groups are denoted as O(V,6),O,(6) or O(q) where 6 or q indicates the form. Note
that we use Spo,(b) or S'pon(k) to denote the symplectic group and U(V,h) to denote
the unitary group with hermitian form 5.

The matrix algebra over field k is denoted by M,(k). We use the symbol € to
denote octonion (Cayley) algebras in chapters where we deal with groups of type Go.

+

The symbols ®, @ are used to denote tensor and direct sum respectively. The end

 

 

 

 

of a proof is denoted with symbol OU. Bold face word means the word appears for
the first time and we give definition for that or a possible reference for the definition.
The notation det(A), Hom(M, N), Aut(V), Gal(/v/k) denotes the determinant of a

matrix A, the set of all homomorphisms from M to N, the set of all automorphisms of

 

V and the Galois group of field over k respectively. The symbol diag(A, B,..., D)
denotes the diagonal matrix where A,B and D themselves are matrices (possibly
1 x 1) sitting on the diagonal. Transpose of a matrix A is written as ‘A and transpose

inverse is written as ‘A~!.

xi