44 6. MAIN RESULTS

up to a k-isomorphism, such that G = Aut(€), the group of k-algebra automorphisms
of €. The group G is k-split if and only if the octonion algebra € is split, otherwise

G is anisotropic and € is necessarily a division algebra. We prove
;

Theorem 6.2.3. Any element which is not unipotent in G(k) either leaves in-

variant a quaternion subalgebra or fixes a quadratic étale subalgebra of € pointwise.

This is Lemma 8.1.3 in the thesis. We discuss reality for G2 over special fields (Propo-
sition 8.4.2, Theorem 8.4.5 and Theorem 8.4.6). We show that nonreal elements exists
in Gy over k finite, with characteristic k not 2 or 3 (compare with [CR]), these are
neither semisimple nor unipotent.

As a result of our investigation for groups of type G2 we also get information about
conjugacy classes in such groups. We put this in general frame work of algebraic
groups and describe the results obtained. Let G be an algebraic group defined over
a field k. Let X be a G-space. Two elements x,y € X are said to have same orbit
type if the isotropy subgroups G, and Gy are conjugate. Let G be a compact Lie
group acting on a compact manifold M. It was conjectured by Montgomery ([Ei],
Problem 45) that there are only finitely many orbit types. Floyd proved that if G is
a torus acting on a compact orientable manifold then there are only a finite number
of distinct isotropy subgroups ({F], 4.5). Using the results of Floyd, Mostow ({M],
Theorem) proved that when G is a compact Lie group acting on a compact manifold
M then there are at most a finite number of inequivalent orbits. One can consider the
action of a group G on itself by conjugation and ask for orbit types. Rony Gouraige
studied conjugacy classes of centralizers in M,,(D) (the algebra of endomorphisms of a
finite dimensional vector space over a central division algebra) in his thesis submitted
at City University of New York in 2004.

In this thesis we calculate conjugacy classes of centralizers of elements for anisotropic
groups of type G» over a field of characteristic 4 2. Anisotropic groups of type G2
over k are given by automorphisms of octonion division algebras over k. We specifi-
cally calculate conjugacy classes of centralizers for compact G2 (anisotropic G2 over

R) and prove,

Theorem 6.2.4. Let G be the anisotropic group of type G2 over R. Then there

are exactly five orbit types (conjugacy classes of centralizers).