CHAPTER 9
Reality in Algebraic Groups

In this chapter we investigate the reality question for algebraic groups in general.
We mainly prove the theorems mentioned in Section 6.3. First we look at the structure
of strongly regular real elements in simple groups of adjoint type which have —1 in
the Weyl group and prove that it is real if and only if it is strongly real. This we
do in Section 9.1. Later in Section 9.3 we look at the structure of semisimple real
elements over fields of cd(k) < 1. The results in this section are part of [ST2].

9.1. Strongly Regular Real Elements

In this section we discuss structure of a strongly regular real element. An element
t in a connected linear algebraic group G is called regular if its centralizer Zg(t) has
minimal dimension among all centralizers. An element is called strongly regular
if its centralizer in G is a maximal torus. We note that a semisimple element in a
connected reductive group is regular if and only if the connected component of its
centralizer is a maximal torus. Let G be a connected, simple algebraic group defined
over k of adjoint type such that the longest element wo in the Weyl group W of G
with respect to a maximal torus T acts by —1 on the roots. The adjoint groups of
type Ai, By, Ci, Du(l > 2), By, Es, Fi, G2 are precisely the simple groups which satisfy
the above hypothesis. For the groups of the above type we mention here a theorem
of Richardson and Springer ({RS], Proposition 8.22) which plays an important role
in our investigation.

Proposition 9.1.1 (Richardson, Springer). Let G be a simple group of adjoint
type, let T’ be a maximal torus of G and let c€ W(T") be an involution. Then there
exists an involution n € N(TI’) which represents c.

Then we have,

Theorem 9.1.2. Let G be a connected simple group of adjoint type defined over k.
Suppose the longest element wo of the Weyl group W of G with respect to a maximal
torus T acts by —1 on the roots. Let t € G(k) be a strongly regular element. Then

87