8.1. REALITY IN G2 63

polynomial of A over L in the first case and over k in the second, is reducible and the
minimal polynomial of A is not of the form (X —a)3, for a € L in the first case and

for a €k in the second case. Then to is strongly real.
We have the following,

Theorem 8.1.7. Let G be a group of type G2 over a field k of characteristic not
2. Let to € G(k) be an element which is not unipotent. Then, to is real in G(k) if and
only if to is strongly real in G(k). In addition, if char(k) 4 3 then every unipotent
element in G(k) is strongly real in G(k).

Proof. The assertion about unipotents in G(k) follows from Lemma 8.1.2. In view
of Lemma 8.1.3 and discussion following the lemma, we need to consider the case when
to € SU(L+,}) or to € SL(3). In these cases, we look at the characteristic polynomial
x4(X) and the minimal polynomial m4(X) of A. We first assume that y4(X) 4
ma(X). Hence degree of ma(X) < 2 and x4(X) is reducible. The conditions in
Proposition 8.1.6 are satisfied in this case. Hence to is strongly real. We take up the
case of A with y4(X) = ma(X) below.

 

 

 

 

The result follows from the following theorem.

Theorem 8.1.8. Let to be an element in G(k) and suppose to fixes exactly a
quadratic étale subalgebra L of € pointwise. Let us denote the image of to by A
in SU(L+,6) or in SL(3) as the case may be. Also assume that the characteristic
polynomial of A over L in the first case and over k in the second, is equal to the
minimal polynomial of A. Then to is conjugate to ts" in G(k) if and only if to is

strongly real in G(k).

Proof. We distinguish the cases of both these subgroups below and complete the

 

 

 

proof in the next two sections, see Theorem 8.2.8 and Theorem 8.3.5.

 

We record the theorem about semisimple elements separately.

Theorem 8.1.9. Let to be a semisimple element in G(k) and suppose to fixes the
quadratic étale subalgebra L of € pointwise. Let us denote the image of to by A in
SU(L+,h) or in SL(3) as the case may be. If the characteristic polynomial of A over
L in the first case and over k in the second, is reducible then to is strongly real in
G(k). If the characteristic polynomial is irreducible then to is real if and only if to is

strongly real.