96 10. EPILOGUE

of Fy in which there are no k-rational involutions. Our results suggest that in such
forms of F, (which are necessarily anisotropic), there are no nontrivial real elements.

3. Real elements and orthogonal representations: In view of the connection
to representation theory described in the previous section it would be of interest to
directly relate self-dual representations to real elements, at least for groups with
suitable hypothesis. Even in the case of finite groups there seem to be no satisfactory
answer. We are lead to the following question: Let G be a finite group. Is the number
of strongly real conjugacy classes of G/Z(G) equal to the number of orthogonal
characters of G/Z(G)?

4. Reality in linear algebraic groups: A lot of results, Theorem 9.1.2 and
Theorem 9.3.3, suggest stronger results should be true. For example one should be
able to generalise Theorem 9.1.2 for all semisimple elements not just for strongly
regular elements. In the analysis in Chapter 9, the result of Wonenburger about
GL,(k), which is a reductive group but not semisimple, is left out. One should
modify the hypothesis suitably for reductive groups and bring in the results about
GL,(k) into the picture. Perhaps, a suitable notion of Weyl group associated to an
element will do. We would like to mention here a few questions raised by T. A.

Springer. Let G be a connected reductive group.

(i) Do the real elements in G' form a Zariski closed subset of G?
(ii) If so, what are the dimension of its components?

(iii) Do the real semisimple elements form a dense subset?

5. Obstruction to reality: We have hardly dealt with the arithmetic aspect of
reality property in this thesis, though it is very much in the scheme of things to deal
with the local-global behavior of reality of an element in these groups. We specify the
question more clearly here. Let G a group defined over a global field k. Let g € G(k)
be a real element. Is it true that g is real in G(k) if and only if g is real in G(k,), Vp
and in G(R)? One can ask another related question to compute obstruction to reality
for a particular group. We explain it here. Let G be a group defined over k. Let
g € G(k). Suppose g is real in G(k), where k is an algebraic closure of k. Calculate
the obstruction to g being real in G(k). We have calculated this for the groups of type
G in this thesis (see Corollary 8.2.11 and 8.3.7 and Section 9.2). For a local-global
principle for conjugacy classes in classical groups, we refer to [FI].

6. Centralizers and their conjugacy classes: Conjugacy classes and cen-
tralizers have been studied extensively in the literature and are very important in

understanding the structure of a group. With several results about groups of type