94 10. EPILOGUE

Proposition 10.1.3. An irreducible real character comes from a realizable rep-
resentation if and only if the representation V is orthogonal. And an irreducible real
character does not come from a realizable representation if and only if the represen-

tation V is symplectic.

A question of independent interest is to directly relate orthogonal and symplectic
representations to real elements in G. Results proved in this thesis suggest that
orthogonal representations should be related to strongly real elements, i.e., the one
which are a product of two involutions. It also seems likely that for a large class of
finite groups, real elements in G/Z(G) are strongly real. There does not seem to be
any known result in this direction.

The question of determining a finite group of which all elements are real has been
extensively studied. We would like to mention the work of [TiZ] where they classify
finite quasi simple groups in which all elements are real. They also give some examples
of nonreal elements. Study of real element has been used in the proof of Thompson
and Ore conjectures in the case of finite Chevalley groups. Here we quote a Theorem
from [EG] (Theorem 1).

Theorem 10.1.4. Let G be a Chevalley group. Let hy and hy be two regular
semisimple elements in G from a maximal split torus and let C; and Cy be the con-

jugacy classes of hy and hg, respectively. Then CyCy D G/Z(G).

This theorem immediately implies the Ore conjecture for any simple group G con-
taining a regular semisimple element h in a maximal split torus, and the Thompson
conjecture, if this element is, in addition, real (see [EG]).

Now we turn our attention to representations of algebraic groups. We have seen
that for finite groups real elements are related to real representations which in turn to
orthogonal and symplectic representations. Now we would like to bring in the connec-
tion of a representation being self-dual to being orthogonal or symplectic. Steinberg
studied this question for Chevalley groups. Here we refer to Lemma 78 and Lemma
79 from [S4]. Let G be an indecomposable (i.e. corresponds to an indecomposable
root system) infinite Chevalley group, V an irreducible rational G-module and X be

its highest weight. Then,

Lemma 10.1.5 (Steinberg). The following conditions are equivalent.

(1) There exists a nonzero invariant bilinear form on V.

(2) V and its dual V* are isomorphic as representations of G.