vi ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

motivation from their infinite energy to be patient and hard working. I also thank
Yashpal, Ajay Srivastava and Amit Roy for helping me in all kind of non-academic
matters which made life a lot easier. It will never be enough to thank the library
staff and their help in providing the state-of-the-art facility and always being eager
to help out.

I had opportunity to discuss Mathematics with Prof. Mikhail Borovoi and Prof.
Boris Kunyavskii. My thanks are due to Prof. Borovoi and his family for being helpful
to me during my visit to Israel. I thank Prof. T. A. Springer for making positive
comments and showing interest in my thesis questions over emails. I thank Prof. Eric
Ellers for showing interest in my thesis and making several comments which made it
much more readable.

I discussed Mathematics with many people in Indian Statistical Institute, Ban-
galore and I thank them for all their support. My thanks are due to Prof. B. Sury,
Prof. S. Inamdar and other members of the unit for having good deal of discussions
on Mathematics with them. Prof. N.S. N. Sastry and Prof. G. Misra have been very
helpful throughout my stay in ISI. I appreciate enthusiasm of department secretary
Ms. Asha to whom I have troubled very often.

I take this opportunity to thank many of my teachers starting from my early
school days till date for having faith in my ability and guiding me in right direction.
Mr. Alagu, Mr. S.B. Singh, (Late) Mr. H.S. Singh, (who taught me in schools), Prof.
Sobha Madan, Prof. R.K.S. Rathore, Prof. Shunmugaraj (during undergraduation)
deserve my thanks and regards for helping me to fight out my obscure version of
Mathematics. Mathematics, for me, would not have been same without their patience
with me. Their faith has been a guiding principal in my career. The Department of
Mathematics, HT Kanpur, deserves a note for shaping my career in Mathematics. I
have very fond memories of the department and I wish the department will continue
to be very active and helpful in guiding students in the right direction.

In my life I have had great influence on my character of many of my friends. My
thanks to all of my school friends, batch-mates in college and graduation. I thank
Pooja, Alok, Manna and Neena, who were my batch mates in M.Sc., for always being
there to help me out with all kind of problems. They always made me feel like a
member of a family. Even now I trouble them quite often. For a long time I shared
office in HRI with Sanjeev who was senior to me and a good friend. On many occasions
we had competition to outwork each other. Thanks! I enjoyed that. I enjoyed my

several years of stay at HRI with Sanjeev, Partha, Swapan, Sourin, Suryadeep and