10.2. PROGRAMME AND FURTHER QUESTIONS 95

(3) —woA = A, where wo is the longest element in the Weyl group of G.

Moreover if there exists an invariant bilinear form on V then it is unique up to
multiplication by a scalar and is either symmetric or skew-symmetric. Next lemma

determines when the representation is orthogonal.

Lemma 10.1.6 (Steinberg). With notation as above, there exists an element h
in the center of G with h? = 1 such that, if V possesses an invariant bilinear form,

then it is symmetric if \(h) = 1 and skew-symmetric if A(h) = —1.

One can summarise the results above by saying that, for a semisimple algebraic group,
there exists an involution h in the center, which acts by 1 on an irreducible self-dual
representation if and only if the representation is orthogonal. In particular, any self
dual representation of an adjoint semisimple group is orthogonal. This question has
been extensively studied in the literature. We mention here the works of Prasad
([Pr1], [Pr2]) where he studies self dual representations of finite groups of Lie type

and p-adic groups.

10.2. Programme and Further Questions

Nevertheless, in the end we would like to point out some questions to which this
thesis has contributed partially. Some of these questions are of independent interest
and answers to these questions will help in understanding algebraic groups.

1. Reality in classical groups: The determination of real elements in an
algebraic group G, defined over a field k, is far from being satisfactory. We need to
determine suitable criteria for real elements for the k-forms of classical groups which
are defined using algebras with involutions (see [KMRT], chapter III, section 12).
Let (A,o) be a central simple k-algebra with involution. Determine real elements in
the groups Sim(A, a), PSim(A, a) and Iso(A, a). More specifically, we would like to
ask whether real semisimple elements in these groups are strongly real. In this thesis
we have given a partial answer to this question. For example when A = End,(V)
and o is the adjoint involution o, corresponding to a nondegenerate symmetric or
skew-symmetric form b, we have answered this question for the group Iso(A, a) (see
the theorems mentioned in Section 6.1 and Section 7.3).

2. Reality in exceptional groups: The programme for exceptional groups
needs delicate care. In this thesis, among exceptional groups we have tackled the

groups of type G» and classify real elements as strongly real. There are known forms