24 3. GROUPS OF TYPE G2

We use this theorem to get following,

Proposition 3.2.9. Let € be an octonion algebra over k and G = Aut(€). Let
D and D’ be two composition subalgebras of €. Suppose D and D! are isomorphic
composition subalgebras. Then the subgroups G(€/D) and G(€/D') are conjugate in
the group G. Also the subgroups G(€,D) and G(€,D’) are conjugate in the group G.

Proof. Let b be the isomorphism of D to D’. By Theorem 3.2.8 ob can be extende
to an automorphism of €, say ¢. Then, it is easy to check dG(€/D)¢7! = G(€/D’)
and @G(€,D)¢-! = G(€,D’).

 

 

 

 

Using these results we calculate centralizers of elements in the groups of type G2
(Theorem 8.5.1) and it turns out that they are contained in one of the subgroups

described above.

3.3. Involutions in G»

In this section, we discuss the structure of involutions in Gj. Let G be a group
of type Gy over k and € be an octonion algebra over k with G = Aut(€). We call an
element g € G(k) an involution if g? = 1. Hence nontrivial involutions in G(k) are
precisely the automorphisms of € of order 2. Let g be an involution in Aut(€). The
eigenspace corresponding to the eigenvalue 1 of g € Aut(€) is the subalgebra D of € of
fixed points of g and is a quaternion subalgebra of € ([J], section 4, there it is called a
reflection). The orthogonal complement D+ of D in € is the eigenspace corresponding
to the eigenvalue —1. Conversely, the linear automorphism of €, leaving a quaternion
subalgebra D of € pointwise fixed and, acting as multiplication by —1 on D+, is an
involutorial automorphism of € (see Proposition 3.2.6). Let p be an involution in G(k)
and let D be the quaternion subalgebra of €, fixed pointwise by p. Let p! = gpg! be
a conjugate of p by an element g € G(k). Then, the quaternion subalgebra D’ = g(D)
of € is fixed pointwise by p’. Conversely, suppose the quaternion subalgebra D of €
is isomorphic to the quaternion subalgebra D’ of €. Then, by Theorem 3.2.8 there
exists an automorphism g of € such that g(D) = D’. If p denotes the involution

leaving D fixed pointwise, p’ = gpg! fixes D' pointwise. Therefore, we have,

Proposition 3.3.1. Let € be an octonion algebra over k. Then the conjugacy
classes of involutions in G = Aut(€) are in bijection with the isomorphism classes of

quaternion subalgebras of €.