CHAPTER 0
Prologue

Group theory is ubiquitous in nature and it arises via symmetry aspects of ob-
jects. The most common groups are the set of linear transformations which preserve
symmetry of some object. The way platonic solids are related to finite subgroups of 3-
dimensional orthogonal group has mesmerized us for a long time. It is a striking fact,
but not surprising, that algebraic groups have their origin in differential equations.
It was imagination of S. Lie and later some papers written by Kolchin, to develop
Galois theory for differential equations which gave birth to algebraic groups. To start
with, linear algebraic groups are defined over algebraically closed fields. In many ways
they have properties similar to Lie groups. It is a credit to the great mathematicians
Chevalley, Kolchin, Borel and others, who extensively studied the theory of algebraic
groups. They also brought in the picture of algebraic groups defined over an arbitrary
base field k. In studying algebraic groups over algebraically closed fields one has a lot
of facilities and nice theorems. However studying groups over an arbitrary base field
is equally important from the point of view of group theory and its representations.
In this thesis we deal with the subject of algebraic groups and try to look into the
structure of some of the groups. We hope this thesis adds to the understanding of
algebraic groups.

We now describe the organization of this thesis. The question of determining
real elements in an algebraic group is of great importance from the point of view of
representation theory. A reader who is just interested in looking up the results proved
in this thesis, should go straightaway to Chapter 6 and then move on to Chapter 10 for
connections with representation theory. Since there is no general theory to describe
the main results in answer to our questions we study the question of reality for various
groups case by case. We have mainly dealt with classical groups case by case and
groups of type G2. Indeed we see that the results are coherent and follow a pattern
which guides us towards asking the question in broader sense, i.e., for all algebraic
groups (see Section 10.2). Some general results in Chapter 9 further strengthen our

claim.