Segmenting Scientific Abstracts into Discourse Categories: A
Deep Learning-Based Approach for Sparse Labeled Data

Soumya Banerjee
soumyaBanerjee@outlook.in
National Digital Library
Indian Institute of Technology
Khragpur, India

Plaban Kumar Bhowmick
plaban@cet.iitkgp.ac.in
Center for Education Technology
Indian Institute of Technology
Khragpur, India

ABSTRACT

The abstract of a scientific paper distills the contents of the paper
into a short paragraph. In the biomedical literature, it is custom-
ary to structure an abstract into discourse categories like BACK-
GROUND, OBJECTIVE, METHOD, RESULT, and CONCLUSION,
but this segmentation is uncommon in other fields like computer
science. Explicit categories could be helpful for more granular, that
is, discourse-level search and recommendation. The sparsity of la-
beled data makes it challenging to construct supervised machine
learning solutions for automatic discourse-level segmentation of
abstracts in non-bio domains. In this paper, we address this problem
using transfer learning. In particular, we define three discourse cat-
egories - BACKGROUND, TECHNIQUE, OBSERVATION - for an
abstract because these three categories are the most common. We
train a deep neural network on structured abstracts from PubMed,
then fine-tune it on a small hand-labeled corpus of computer sci-
ence papers. We observe an accuracy of 75% on the test corpus. We
perform an ablation study to highlight the roles of the different
parts of the model. Our method appears to be a promising solution
to the automatic segmentation of abstracts, where the labeled data
is sparse.

CCS CONCEPTS

+ Computing methodologies — Neural networks; - Informa-
tion systems — Document structure.

KEYWORDS

structured abstract, deep learning, LSTM, transfer learning

1 INTRODUCTION

The abstract of a research paper is a short, succinct description of
the content of the paper. In a few lines, it conveys the information
that is subsequently revealed in detail over multiple pages supple-
mented with figures, tables, and references to existing works. In
biomedical literature, including research papers, review articles,
and clinical practice guidelines, it is a common practice to have
structured abstracts [10]. They typically follow the IMRaD format,
ie. INTRODUCTION, METHODS, RESULTS, and DISCUSSION.
Most medical journals indexed in PubMed conform to this style [8].

Debarshi Kumar Sanyal
debarshisanyal@gmail.com
National Digital Library
Indian Institute of Technology
Khragpur, India

Samiran Chattopadhyay
samirancju@gmail.com
Department of IT
Jadavpur University
Kolkata, India

Partha Pratim Das
ppd@cse.iitkgp.ac.in
Department of CSE
Indian Institute of Technology
Khragpur, India

Structured abstracts can help researchers to refer to their regions of
interest quickly, label documents more effectively, assist the index-
ing process, and help in data mining [8]. Recently researchers have
designed deep network models to automatically segment unstruc-
tured abstracts in PubMed leveraging the large volume of structured
abstracts already available [3-5]. However, structured abstracts are
uncommon in other disciplines like computer science, although,
arguably, the same benefits may be reaped if structured abstracts
were available (see, e.g., [1]).

In this paper, we investigate if sentences in an abstract can be
labeled with discourse categories using machine learning methods
even if the labeled data is sparse. We take abstracts in computer sci-
ence (CS) as a case study. We categorize sentences in a CS abstract
into three classes: BACKGROUND, TECHNIQUE, and OBSERVA-
TION. We adopt a deep learning model for sequential sentence
classification pretrained on structured abstracts from PubMed. We
prepare a small corpus of hand-labeled abstracts in CS. We fine-tune
the model on a subset of the corpus and test it on the remainder. Fig.
1 shows an abstract from JEEE Transactions on Learning Technolo-
gies in which each sentence is labeled with one of the three classes.
Both hand-annotated golden labels and the predictions done by
the model are indicated. We observe an accuracy of 75% on our
test corpus, which is quite promising, given the limited amount of
golden data. In brief, our contributions are

1. We propose a simplified discourse structure for CS abstracts.

2. We prepare a hand-labeled corpus of structured CS abstracts.

3. We use transfer learning to automatically classify sentences
in CS abstracts into the above discourse categories.

The code and the datasets are available publicly’. The rest of the
paper is structured as follows. Section 2 describes the discourse
categories for CS abstracts and the rationale behind choosing this
structure, Section 3 introduces the datasets, Section 4 describes
the machine learning model, Section 5 evaluates of the model, and
finally Section 6 concludes the paper.

 

2 DISCOURSE CATEGORIES

Abstracts in biomedical papers in PubMed are structured into five
classes: BACKGROUND, OBJECTIVE, METHOD, RESULT, and

‘https://github.com/soumyaxyz/abstractAnalysis