27

an external aid for interpretation. This facility was unknown in the past.
Similarly, in future some other new technology may come out. Again,
new or peculiar circumstances may arise where the court has to take
recourse to some material or aid which has not been used in the past as
external aid. Therefore, rigid and statutory rules for interpretation of

statutes for the use of external aids are not warranted.

Similarly, a court has to interpret a statutory provision in the
context of current social and economic circumstances prevailing in the
society. Krishna lyer J. in State of Mysore v R.V. Bidop, AIR 1973 SC
2555 has held that ‘social context’ can be looked as an external aid,
where the language is ambiguous. As stated in previous paragraphs,
Bhagwati J. (as he then was) in S.P. Gupta’s case has held that the
interpretation of every statutory provision must keep pace with changing
concept and values and it must accord with the requirement of the fast
changing society which is undergoing rapid social and economic
transformation. Such social and economic changes cannot be
formulated in the legislative form. Moreover, with the passage of time,
meaning of words may also get changed. For example, in 1950 in A.K.
Gopalan’s case, meaning of words ‘life and personal liberty’ in Article 21
of the Constitution of India was interpreted in terms of only physical or
bodily liberty and not more than and ‘procedure established by law’ was
interpreted like ‘any kind of procedure prescribed by the law of any kind.
But the meaning of the words ‘life and personal liberty’ has been widened
considerably to mean protection to all those aspect of life which go to
make a man’s life meaningful, complete and worth-living with dignity.
Right to life would include all that give meaning to a man’s life e.g. his
tradition, culture, heritage and protection of that heritage in its full
measure. ( Ramsharan vs Union of India, (1989) Suppl.(1) SCC 251 (Prs.
13-14). It would also include the right to good health (M.C. Mehta vs
Union of India, (1999)6 SCC 9 (Pr.1); right to healthy environment (A.P.

27