December 2001

D.O. No. 6(3)(63)/99-L.C.(LS)

December 14, 2001

Dear Shri Jaitley,

I am herewith forwarding the 177" Report on Law Relating to Arrest.
This subject was taken up by the Law Commission suo motu with a view to
clearly delineate and regulate the power of arrest without warrant vested in
the Police by section 41 and other provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code.
The said provisions were enacted before the judgment of the Supreme Court
in Maneka Gandhi (1978). The law laid down in the said decision casts a cloud
upon the validity of some of the provisions in section 41 and allied provisions.

With a view to ascertain the exact situation obtaining today, we had
requested the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to collect the data
from all the States with respect to the number of arrests in a given year, the
number of arrests for bailable offences, the number of arrests under
preventive provisions and other relevant particulars. Accordingly, NHRC
wrote to Director Generals of Police of all the States, who were good enough to
send the material as required by us. On the basis of material so forwarded,
we had prepared an extract, which is now annexed to this Report as Annexure
II. They establish that, overall, the arrests under the preventive provisions
were more in number than the arrests for substantive offences and further
that a large number of arrests were in respect of bailable offences which more
often happen to be non-cognizable offences (wherein no arrest can be made
without a warrant or order from a magistrate). The Law Commission
accordingly prepared a Consultation Paper setting out its provisional views
and issued a questionnaire to all concerned. Three seminars were held by the
Law Commission at Delhi, Calcutta and Hyderabad respectively. A large
volume of responses were also received from the concerned members of the
public, organizations and associations. After duly considering all the said
material, the Law Commission has prepared the accompanying Report.

We have suggested amendment of section 41 and in particular
substitution of clauses (a) and (b) of sub-section (1) of section 41. We have also
recommended deletion of the present sub-section (2) of section 41 and
substitution of another provision in its place. Besides the amendment of
section 41, amendments are recommended to several other provisions in the
Code of Criminal Procedure.