D.O.No.6(3)77/2002-LC(LS) May 9, 2002
Dear Shri Jaitley ji,

I am forwarding herewith the 181‘ Report “Amendment to Section 106 of the
Transfer of Property Act, 1882”.

2. It may be mentioned that in 1998, the Law commission forwarded to the
Government of India its One Hundred Fifty-Seventh Report on Section 52: “The
Transfer of Property Act, and its Amendment”. The said report is awaiting
implementation. In the meantime, the Commission considered it proper to take up the
study of amendment of section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, suo moto, in
order to eliminate litigation in so far as it relates to computation of period of notice and
to relax some of the rigid principles laid down in some judgements which have led to
serious injustice and multiplicity of litigation thereby often causing hardship to
litigants. While referring to the amendments made by the UP Act 24 of 1954 in Section
106, we have emphasized inter-alia, that by virtue of the amendments proposed, the
notice issued by the plaintiff would not be invalidated even if the time falls short of the
prescribed period, provided the suit is filed by plaintiff after expiry of the period
prescribed in the section. In tenancies which are not yearly, the period of notice is
proposed to be increased from fifteen days to sixty days. Further, it is being made clear
that the period shall count from the date of receipt of notice.

3. The recommendations have been made with a view to remove serious injustice
and prevent multiplicity of litigation in the country. We hope that the
recommendations in this Report will go a long way in attaining the objectives set out
above. We are also recommending that the proposed amendments be applied to
pending proceedings.

4. A draft Bill is also annexed with the report to suggest the amendments in the
legislative form.

With Warm regards,
Yours sincerely,

(Justice M. Jagannadha Rao)
Shri Arun Jaitley,
Hon’ble Minister for Law, Justice & Company Affairs,
Shastri Bhavan,
New Delhi.