LAW COMMISSION OF INDIA
SHASTRI BHAWAN
NEW DELHI-110001° 0”
TEL. : 3384476

Residence :

1, JANPATH
NEW DELHI - 110 011
TEL. : 3019468

JUSTICE ‘
8..P. dEEVAN REDDY
Chairman, Law Commission of indie

 

D.O.No.6(3)(56)/99-LC(LS) Sept.21, 2000

No. -L
Dear Su fot,
I am forwarding herewith the One Hundred Seventy Fifth
Report on “The Foreigners (Amendment) Bill, 2000”.

2. The subject was taken up in pursuance to the reference made by
the Government of India on 16" February, 1999. Prior to it, certain
amendments were mooted in the Foreigners (Amendment) Bill, 1998
introduced in Rajya Sabha by the Home Minister, Shri L.K. Advani.
The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Afinirs felt that the

_ Government should undertake an in-depth study regarding the efficacy
of the proposed amendments in checking infiltration of foreigners from
across the borders. The Committee favoured a holistic approach in
dealing with the acute problem of infiltration. Various suggestions
were made before it which included, inter alia, the desirability of
summary trials, setting up of special courts, making grant of bail more
difficult, etc. The matter was referred to the Law Commission for
consideration, .

3. The Commission has considered the relevant material including
the reports and views of the States and Union Territories regarding their
experience in implementation of the provisions of the Foreigners Act,
1946 and other cognate statutory enactments. While dealing with the
issue, the Commission had to choose between two options which were
available. The first was to recommend a comprehensive Act repealing
the existing legislationjand rules and orders etc. The second option was
to recommend to the existing legislative frame-work.
Instead of codifying the entire law concerning the foreigners, the
Commission chose the second option of recommending incorporation of
new provisions in the Foreigners Act so as to make it effective enough
to meet the main problem confronted by the country today, namely,
illegal migration, without interfering with the existing legal frame-work.
The Commission is of the view that the problem of illegal migration
from neighbouring countries has to be tackled seriously by providing a
machinery for effective and speedy detection of illegal entrants. The
function of determining whether a person is an ‘illegal entrant’ or not is
proposed to be entrusted to the Immigration Officers whose orders shall
be appealable, to be heard and decided by an Immigration Tribunal,
manned by a person who is or has been a District Judge or an
Additional District Judge. The matters shall be decided by these