It has been, however, reported in the press recently that Government has taken a decision that there
will not only be regional authorities constituted under Section 3 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986
(for which there can be no objection) but that there will be a single appellate body (consisting inter alia, a
Supreme Court Judge) at Delhi. It is also reported that the Union Cabinet has approved this proposal.

The Commission is of the view that if there is a single appellate authority as proposed, at Delhi, it
will be almost inaccessible to the citizens of the country in remote parts and serious issues relating to
environment will remain un-addressed since there will not be an effective right of access to Courts. The
appeal, it will be noticed, is the first opportunity for affected citizens to question decisions taken by the
authorities. Further, in the proposal of the Government, there is no provision for technical/scientific inputs
in the centralized Appellate Authority. Moreover, the proposal does not make the said Court at Delhi an
appellate authority under the Water Act or Air Act but it remains an appellate authority only for purposes
of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. As at present, the appellate authorities under the Water Act
and Air Act are government officials and there are neither Judges nor Technical personnel involved in the
decision making process under those Acts and orders passed thereunder are being questioned only under
Art. 226 or Art. 32. There is no reason why the appeals under these two Acts should not go before a
Judicial body within each State.

The scheme proposed by the Law Commission in this Report, on the other hand,
is very comprehensive. The Judicial body will be an Environment Court at State
Level consisting of sitting/retired judges or members of the Bar with more than 20
years standing, assisted by a statutory panel of experts in each State. It will be a
Court of original jurisdiction on all environmental issues and also an appellate
authority under all the three Acts, viz., Water Act, Air Act and Environment
(Protection) Act, 1986 and will reduce the burden of High Courts/Supreme Court.
There will lie a further statutory appeal direct to the Supreme Court against the
judgment of the proposed Environment Court. In our view, this scheme is
preferable to the Government’s proposal of a single appellate Court at Delhi,
which will be beyond the reach of affected parties.

We, therefore, request you to kindly take up the matter with the Ministry of Environment for
further discussion at your earliest, before any law is passed in this behalf.
With regards
Yours sincerely,

(M. Jagannadha Rao)
Shri Arun Jaitley
Union Minister for Law and Justice
Government of India
NEW DELHI.