foreign country is substantive and the foreign party files an action in India,
the lex fori will apply to the ‘procedure’ in India while the substantive rights
will be governed by the substantive law of the foreign country in relation to
that right. In as much as Indian law treats the law of limitation as
procedural, the foreign party can, in case the judicial remedy has become
barred in the foreign country, file an action in India, if the period of
limitation is longer in India than in the foreign country. The only exception
as contained in sec 11, where the Indian courts can refuse relief is where the
foreign law has extinguished the contract and, in addition, all the parties
were domiciled in the foreign country during the relevant period.

If the law of limitation remains ‘procedural’ as in India, it gives scope
for ‘forum shopping’. Over a period of fifty years, almost all leading
writers on Private International Law including Cheshire and North
emphasized the advantages that would accrue if the foreign law of limitation
is treated as substantive, for then the foreign limitation period will apply
even if an action is filed in another country. Forum shopping would stop.
In fact, in UK and other common-law countries, the law has been amended
by treating the foreign limitation law as substantive under the Foreign
Limitation Periods Act, 1984. In Australia, today we have the Choice of
Law (Limitation Periods) Act 1993 (Victoria), the Choice of Law
(Limitation Periods) Act, 1993 (NSW), Choice of Law (Limitation Periods)
Act, 1996 (Queensland) etc. The above statutes in Australia have accepted
the view of the minority judgment of Mason CJ in McKain vs. R.W. Miller
& Co (South Australia) Pty Ltd. (1992) 174 CLR page 1. New Zealand has
also amended its Limitation Act, 1950 in 1996 by adding ss 28A to 28C
treating the foreign law of limitation as substantive. The law in Canada was
changed by Judge-made law in Tolofson vs. Jenson 1994(3) SC R 1022. In
the United States, the Uniform Conflict of Laws Limitation Act, 1982
proposed that the foreign law of limitation be treated as substantive in the
forum country and accordingly statutes were enacted in Arkansas, Colorado,
Montana, North Dakota, Oregon and Washington. In some other States in
US, the law was changed by judgments of Courts.

 

In view of the changes brought about in all common law jurisdictions
bringing the law on par with civil law countries, the Law Commission has
thought it necessary to omit the existing sec 11 of the 1963 Act and replace
it by a new section. Further, the existing sec 11 deals only with law of
limitation concerning contracts entered into abroad and leading authors in
India have said that the Act must provide rules of limitation for all other