As discussed in Chapters IV and V of the Report, it is now recognized that it is
one of the primary duties of the State to provide the machinery for administration of
justice. Administration of criminal justice is, as accepted in all countries, a sovereign
function of the State and the view is that no fee can, in fact, be levied. So far as the
administration of civil justice is concerned, the view in all countries is that the principle
of recovery of full costs of civil justice is no longer tenable. This is the view of various
Law Commissions, Courts and jurists. It is their view that these costs have to be met
from general revenues of the State. The Central and State Governments should therefore
have to meet substantial costs of the administration of justice out of general revenues
collected from the tax payers. We may reiterate that in respect of the problem of finding
funds for meeting the costs of administration of justice, the trend, both in common law
and civil law jurisdiction countries is that, it should be met through general appropriation
and governmental funding and not through the device of increase in Court fees.

It has been suggested in the reference that Court fee must be increased to
discourage vexatious litigation. In regard to discouraging vexatious litigation, the Law
Commission, in agreement with the view consistently expressed earlier by Lord Macaulay
and in the judgments of Courts, is of the view that the idea of enhancing the Court fee to
discourage vexatious litigation is not correct in principle. Jurists and Courts have
pointed out that, on the contrary, higher rates of Court fee will certainly discourage even
honest and genuine litigants, which cannot be allowed to happen. However, in order to
curb vexatious or frivolous litigation, the Commission recommends that a Central
legislation may be made on the lines of the State Act of former Madras State, namely,
“Vexatious Litigation (Prevention) Act, 1949 (Madras Act 8 of 1949). Such statutes are
in force in UK, Australia etc. Apart from this, exemplary costs may also be imposed in
cases of vexatious or frivolous litigation.

It is necessary to mention that the subject of ‘Court fee payable in any Court
except the Supreme Court’ falls under Entry 3 of List II (State List) of Schedule Seventh
to the Constitution of India. Court fee payable in the Supreme Court falls under Entry 77
of List I (Union List). As the Court fees payable in any Court except the Supreme Court
falls under the ‘State List’, ten States have already repealed the Court Fees Act, 1870 in
application to their respective states and have enacted their own Court fees legislation.
Most of the other States have also amended the Court Fees Act, 1870 as applicable in
these States. Union Territory of Pondicherry has also enacted a separate Court Fees Act.
Parliament can make law only for Union Territories and the Supreme Court on the subject
of Court fee. The Supreme Court has made Rules in this behalf.

On a detailed survey, the Law Commission recommends that in order to eliminate
the effect of devaluation of the rupee, and increase in rates of inflation, the rates of fixed
Court fee as prescribed in Schedule 2 of the Court Fees Act, 1870 may be appropriately
revised. However, ad valorem Court fees need not be revised inasmuch as the Court fee
will be paid in proportionate to the value of the claim which in any event would reflect
the enhanced value of the claim after inflation.