JUSTICE LAW COMMISSION OF INDIA
M.JAGANNADHA RAO SHASTRI BHAWAN
Chairman NEW DELHI — 110001

Tel. : 3384475

Fax: 3073864, 3388870
Residence:

1, JANPATH,

NEW DELHI -— 110 001
TEL. 3019465

D.O.NO.6(3)/91/2003-LC(LS) December 15, 2003
Dear Shri Arun Jaitley ji,

I have great pleasure in forwarding the 188" Report of the Law Commission on the
‘Proposals for constitution of Hi-tech Fast-Track Commercial Divisions in High Courts’.

The Commission has taken up the subject suo motu, in view of the vast changes in the
economic policies of our country from the year 1991, ushering in privatisation, liberalization and
globalisation. It appears to the Commission that investors in India, both domestic and foreign,
must be given a clear assurance that commercial suits of high pecuniary value, shall go directly
before the Commercial Division of the High Court (rather than to a District Court ora Single
Judge Bench of the High Court), that in the Commercial Division of the High Court the
procedure will be ‘fast track’ with high-tech facilities of video-conferencing etc. as in the
Commercial Court in New York or Singapore and that the suits will be disposed of normally
within one year or at least within a maximum period of two years. Our recommendation is also
that pending suits of such high value and pending appeals arising out of such high value suits
should go before the Commercial Division. | We are also recommending a statutory right of
appeal to the Supreme Court against decrees in suits passed by the Commercial Division and also
against orders of the Division falling within Order XLIII of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908,
but not in the case of appellate decrees or execution matters. The latter will be governed by Art.
136 of the Constitution of India. Enforcement of decrees should, in our opinion, be also by the
Commercial Division of the High Court and not by the subordinate Courts so far as these high-
value cases are concerned.

 

Once Commercial Division is established in each High Court, consisting of as many
Division Benches as may be necessary, there will be a clear message that such high value
commercial disputes will be disposed of quite fast in India. In this context, I may bring to your
kind notice that there is a recent spate of judgments of the US and UK Commercial Courts
declaring that the Indian Court system has “collapsed” because there are delays upto twenty
years or more, and that, therefore Indian defendants can be sued in US and UK Commercial
Courts, even if there is no cause of action in those countries, provided the Indian defendant has
a branch or local representative in that country or is trading in the stock exchange of that country.
This trend has to be immediately reversed by bringing in ‘fast-track, high-tech Commercial
Divisions’ in all the High Courts. The Commission is of the view that the overall benefits that
may accrue by way of increased investment in India, both from domestic and foreign investors,
will be in hundreds of millions of dollars and the expense in constituting these fast-track, high-
tech Divisions in High Courts will only be a very small fraction thereof.

The Commission has proposed a wide definition of ‘commercial disputes’ which will
include not only disputes between tradesmen but also disputes relating to commercial property,
movable or immovable. Of course, commercial disputes which have to be adjudicated by Courts