or Tribunals of exclusive jurisdiction will not go before the Commercial Division. The
proposed ‘definition’ also permits the High Court to further notify specific “commercial disputes’
from time to time, for the purpose of decision by the Commercial Division. The Commission
proposes that where the value of the subject matter is Rs. 1 crore (or such higher minimum as
may be fixed by the High Court but where the minimum is not in excess of Rs. 5 crores), the
commercial suits must go before the Commercial Division. This norm has been proposed in order
to avoid too many matters above Rs. | crore clogging the work in Commercial Divisions in some
States. If there are too many cases above Rs. | crore, the High Court can fix the minimum value
at Rs. 5 crores for purpose of disposal by the Division.

The fast track procedure as detailed in the Report will be akin to the proposed ‘fast track
arbitration’ referred to in the 176" Report on ‘Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill,
2002’, subject to suitable modifications for purpose of fast-track procedure in a Civil Court.

The Commission has recommended high-tech facilities like video-conferencing,
computerization etc. as in leading Commercial Courts abroad. The National Informatics has
given a Report with an estimate of expenditure for each High Court and this is included in
Chapter VIII.

The Commission, after an analaysis of the Constitutional position on legislative powers,
has stated in the Report that Parliament is competent to make the proposed legislation by virtue
of its legislative powers read with the relevant Entries in List I and List III of the Seventh
Schedule to the Constitution of India.

The Government and each of the High Courts must, as stated in the Report, ensure that
the Commercial Division consists of as many Benches as are necessary and that there are always
sufficient number of Judges in position to man these Benches. We have, for this purpose,
suggested that apart from Judges appointed in the normal course, retired Judges may be
appointed under Art. 224A of the Constitution of India, whether they have retired from the same
High Court or from other High Courts. These Judges in the Commericial Division must be
experienced in civil law and commercial laws. A programme of continuing education on
commercial laws has also to be formulated for the benefit of the Judges and Lawyers who are the
key figures in the Commercial Division.

We are sure that these recommendations will find support from the Bench and the Bar
and above all, from the vast commercial community, both within India and abroad.

We place on record the valuable contribution of Sri S. Muralidhar, Part-time Member of
our Commission in the preparation of this Report.

With regards,
Yours sincerely,

Sd./-
(M. Jagannadha Rao)
Shri Arun Jaitley,
Union Minister for Law, Justice and Commerce and Industry,
Government of India,
Shastri Bhawan,
NEW DELHI.