Officers of Consumer Affairs, Victoria (Australia), 2004, Report of the New
Zealand Law Commission, 1990 and Ontario Law Reform Commission,
1987, etc.

In view of these developments in other countries, the Law
Commission has taken up a detailed study of the subject suo motu. The
Commission has referred to the statutes and Law Commission Reports of
various countries in relation to unfair terms.

Unfair terms of contract law will not affect foreign investment:

At the outset, we would like to refer to an argument that introduction
of a law on ‘unfair terms’ may prejudicially affect foreign investment in
India. In this context, we may point out that the South African Law
Commission 1998 has strongly refuted such an argument and stated that
when such ‘unfair terms’ laws exist in several countries including UK,
USA, Australia, New Zealand, Canada etc., a situation will be reached when
South Africa would suffer a great disadvantage if it did not have one such
law. We are of the same opinion so far as India is concerned (see our
introductory chapter). Our business and commerce will be put to serious
disadvantage if we do not have a law regulating unfair terms of contract.

 

Need for additional provisions apart from provisions of Indian Contract Act, 1872 and
Specific Relief Act, 1963:

We have discussed in detail the existing provisions as regards
voidable and void contracts under the Indian Contract Act, 1872, as well as
non-enforcement of contracts where there is unfairness or hardship, as
contained in the Specific Relief Act, 1963. | We have proposed that the
provisions of these two statutes need not be disturbed. We, however,
propose, in addition, separate set of general provisions to deal with unfair
terms of contracts. In view of the need to protect consumers and
particularly to grant protection from the disadvantages of extensive
introduction of standard terms of contracts which are one-sided, it has
become necessary to evolve general principles regulating unfairness in
contracts. It is in this area that there are new legislations in other countries.
These new laws on unfairness elsewhere contain several important
provisions intended to protect the weaker party against the stronger.
Further, those statutes also contain a long list of guidelines to adjudge
unfairness. The UK Bill of 2004 annexed to the Report of the Law