The report is divided into six chapters. After discussing the concept of legal
trusteeship, the report explains the need to enact a separate law, details the extent,
commencement and scope of the proposed law and concludes by highlighting the salient
features of the proposed enactment. The report recommends the establishment of a
Contribution Regulatory Authority (CRA) comprising a Chairperson and other part-time
Members. The Chairperson would be ex-officio a Secretary to the Government of India.
This structure, it is felt, would subserve the need to have a mechanism to deal with
situations as and when they occur rather than have a permanent body in place
exclusively for the purpose. The main task of the CRA would be to oversee the
collection and distribution of contributions and donations for calamity relief and to
ensure that proper accounts are maintained by the persons and agencies collecting funds
for calamity relief. The CRA itself will ensure that its accounts are audited by the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India. The proposed legislation makes mandatory
the pre-requisite of registration of any agency or person who desires to collect
contributions for calamity relief. Since there may be situations where emergency relief
measures may be required, it is proposed to empower the Collector to grant provisional
registration. Specific provisions have also been recommended for suspension or
cancellation of registration of those who either do not maintain proper accounts,
misappropriate funds. It is also proposed that where the funds remain unutilized by
such persons or agencies, such funds will be transferred to the CRA or to the Collector
for utilization for calamity relief and other similar purposes. While it is also proposed to
empower the Collector and the CRA to levy stringent penalties on the defaulting
agencies, the criminal proceedings would be before the regular criminal courts. Civil
disputes concerning the donations and contributions will go before civil courts
designated for that purpose and the said courts will be governed by principles of natural
justice and not by the Code of Civil Procedure or the Indian Evidence Act.

It is hoped that the recommendations contained in the report will help addressing
the recurrent problem of misuse by private actors collecting contributions from the
public for calamity relief.

With regards

Yours sincerely,

(M. Jagannadha Rao)

Shri H.R. Bharadwaj

Union Minister for Law and Justice
Government of India

Shastri Bhawan

NEW DELHI.