Bhamjee series of cases in 2003 in UK, decided by the Court of Appeal have
laid down the procedure to be followed so that the statutes do not offend the
principle of ‘access to justice’ contained in Art 6 of the European
Convention. In Australia and New Zealand also laws on prevention of
vexatious litigation have been enacted. (Vide High Court Rules 1952 (Rule
63.6 of High Court of Australia; the Western Australia ‘Vexatious
Proceedings Prevention Act, 2002; the Queensland ‘Vexatious Litigants Act,
1981, etc.) There are also provisions in this behalf in sec 88 of the New
Zealand Judicature Act, 1908.

The main purpose of enacting the law on the subject is to prevent a
person from instituting or continuing vexatious proceedings habitually and
without reasonable ground in the High Courts and subordinate courts.

After considering various laws on the subject in Commonwealth
jurisdictions as also the aforesaid Indian statutes of Madras and Maharashtra,
we have recommended in the report that if a person is instituting or
continuing vexatious proceedings ‘habitually and without reasonable
ground’, the Advocate General or the Registrar of the High Court or the
person against whom such cases are filed (with leave of the High Court) may
move the High Court (in a Division Bench) to declare the person a
‘vexatious litigant’. Once that declaration is made, it is published in the
Gazette and communicated to all subordinate courts. Thereafter, the person
so declared as the vexatious litigant, can file civil or criminal proceedings in
the High Court or subordinate courts only (i) with the leave of the High
Court or, (11) (if he is filing such cases in the subordinate courts) with the
leave of the District and Sessions Court. These courts will examine whether
the proceedings proposed to be instituted or being continued, have a prima
facie ground and also whether they are not an abuse of the process of court.
If the leave is refused, the proposed or pending case filed by such person will
be dismissed by the court. _If the vexatious litigant files any such case
before a court without obtaining leave as required by the Act, the case will
be dismissed and costs will have to be awarded by the court in which such
proceedings are filed. In addition, the High Court which imposed the
condition of leave, if it thinks fit, may punish the vexatious litigant for
contempt of the High Court. However, the provisions of the proposed Act
will not be applicable to proceedings taken by the vexatious litigant in
defending himself against proceedings filed by other parties. Similarly,
proceedings under Art 226 of the Constitution of India are also excluded
from its purview. The bar against vexatious litigant for taking out criminal