Indifference towards victims of accidents and those in emergency
medical conditions and even women under labour who are about to deliver
is not peculiar to India but is prevalent in other countries also. In the
United States, there is a statute called EMTALA (Emergency Medical
Treatment and Labour Act) which was enacted by introducing it in 1986
into the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act, 1985 (COBRA).
This Act is also known as the Patient Anti-Dumping Act. It imposed a
mandatory duty on hospitals to give medical treatment to patients in
emergency medical condition and women under labour, failing which the
defaulter can be punished under the criminal law. Under that law, a
hospital must screen and stabilize such persons and then provide emergency
medical treatment. After screening, if the hospital has no facilities, it must
transfer the person to another hospital having necessary facilities. In this
Report, we have adopted several provisions of EMTALA and made suitable
changes to suit our conditions.

We have provided that no hospital or medical practitioner shall refuse
to provide emergency medical care to victims of accidents or those in
emergency medical condition on the ground that it is a medico-legal case or
that the person is not able to pay immediately or that he has no medical
insurance or other reimbursement facilities. If they refuse without
justifiable reason, that will be an offence.

Hospitals and medical practitioners have to initially screen the
persons to decide if the persons require emergency medical treatment. If
they do not require such treatment, the further provisions of the Act will not
apply. If it is determined that the persons require emergency medical
treatment, first they have to be stabilized and thereafter, they must be given
treatment. If the hospital or medical practitioner does not have facilities
for screening, stabilization or emergency medical treatment, the persons
have to be transferred to another hospital or to a medical practitioner having
facilities. | As to what safeguards have to be taken while making the
transfer, as to calling for the services of an ambulance or other vehicle, as to
how the persons should be taken care of during transit, all these matters are
provided in detail in the Bill annexed to the Report. The hospitals and
medical practitioners have to maintain registers as to screening,
stabilization, treatment or transfer.