CHAPTER1

Introduction

The victim of a gruesome acid attack, Laxmi, has filed a writ petition in the
Supreme Court of India in May, 2006 in which the Law Commission of India has
been arrayed as the Respondent No.2. Though the Law Commission had pointed
out to the Court that the reliefs in the petition cannot be prayed for from the Law
Commission, it has decided to take up the matter swo moto in view of the gravity
of the offence of acid attacks.

Acid attacks are becoming a growing phenomenon in India. Laxmi’s case is an
example of what normally occurs in such cases. The petition states that Laxmi, a
young girl, was subject to an acid attack following her refusal to marry the
accused. As a result of the attack the victim’s arms, face and other body parts
were severely disfigured and deformed. Though the victim and her parents
were/are poor they were fortunately helped by a benefactor who bore the medical
expenses approximating to Rs. 2.5 Lakhs. However, even after 4 plastic surgeries
the victim’s physical appearance remains horrific and many more surgeries would
be required to make her physical appearance a semblance of what it was. The

victim can of course never look as she did before the attack.

Though acid attack is a crime which can be committed against any man or
woman, it has a specific gender dimension in India. Most of the reported acid
attacks have been committed on women, particularly young women for spurning
suitors, for rejecting proposals of marriage, for denying dowry etc. The attacker
cannot bear the fact that he has been rejected and seeks to destroy the body of the

woman who has dared to stand up to him.

Thus, acid throwing is an extremely violent crime by which the perpetrator of the
crime seeks to inflict severe physical and mental suffering on his victim. As stated
above this kind of violence is often motivated by deep-seated jealousy or feelings
of revenge against a woman. For instance, in Bangladesh 78 percent of the
reported acid violence is inflicted on women with the most common reasons for

attack being the refusal of marriage, the denial of sex, and the rejection of