E-mail: pv_reddi@yahoo.co.in

Accordingly, the subject was taken up by the Law Commission of India for
consideration. After I assumed the office, the study was undertaken and a
consultation paper was circulated for getting the views of the public, while
expressing the prima facie view of the Law Commission. Certain representations
were received and the same have been adverted to at paragraph 15 of the Report.
The Commission after due deliberations has come to the conclusion that a
declaration followed by confirmation before a registering authority should not by
itself be treated as proof of conversion and secondly it would be highly
inappropriate to prescribe by way of legislation the details of ceremonies and
formalities to be gone through for conversion or the manner in which conversion
is to be proved in a Court of law. At the same time, the Commission felt that the
suggestion of the High Court should be accepted to a limited extent so as to
afford opportunity to those who would like to have documentary evidence to
substantiate the plea of conversion. The Commission has made it clear that filing
of declaration and recording thereof should not be an indispensible proof of
conversion. It should only be made optional so that the converted person will be
enabled to have documentary proof to establish conversion/reconversion as and
when necessary. The Commission has also made it clear that the documentary
proof ought not to be considered as conclusive proof in as much as the Court has
necessarily to go into the question whether conversion was true, and voluntary.
Accordingly, recommendations are made at paragraph 16 and 17 of the Report.
The Commission has expressed the view that in order to give effect to the simple
recommendation which does not conflict with any law in force, statutory
amendments to personal laws are not required. The Central Government can issue
appropriate instructions to the concerned authorities of the UTs and the States.

With regards,

Yours sincerely,

(P.V. Reddi)

Dr. M. Veerappa Moily

Hon’ble Minister for Law and Justice
Government of India

New Delhi — 110 001