545

HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH (COUNCIL OF LAW
REPORTING) RULES, 1997
HIGH COURT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, SHIMLA
NOTIFICATION
Shimla-1, the 14th July, 1997

No. HHC/ Admn. 2(37)/72-I-12104- In supersession of the rules in
regard to the publication of the Himachal Pradesh Series of the Indian Law
Reports as published in Rajpatra, H.P. dated May 4, 1974 and as amended vide
H.P. High Court Notification No. HHC/ admn. 22(14)/82- dated November 18,
1982, the Hon'ble the Chief Justice, High Court of Himachal Pradesh in exercise
of the powers vested in him under Article 229 of the Constitution is pleased to
make the following rules :-

1. These rules shall be called High Court of Himachal Pradesh (Council
of Law Reporting) Rules, 1997.

2. These rules shall come into force with immediate effect.

3. These shall be a Council of Law Reporting which shall be constituted
as follows:-

ji) The Chief Justice.
(ii) The Advocate General.

(iii) | The members of Editorial Committee nominated by the Chief
Justice in consultation with the Advocate General.

(iv) The Editor of the Journal.

(v) The Registrar of the High Court or such other officer as may be
nominated by the Chief Justice, shall be the Secretary of the Council.

Note.- The members of the Editorial Committee shall be selected from the
members of the High Court Bar. They shall function as honorary officials.

4. The members of the Editorial Committee shall hold office for a period
of five years.

5. There shall be an Editor for the Himachal Pradesh Series of the Indian
Law Reports, who shall be appointed by the Chief Justice in consultation with
the Advocate General.

6. The appointment of the Editor shall be for a period not exceeding five
years at a time.

7. The Editor shall work under the direct supervision of the Chief Justice
and report directly to the Chief Justice in any manner relating to his functions.

8. (a) The Editor will be assisted by an Assistant Editor appointed by the
Chief Justice in consultation with the Advocate General.