oe
Cop LIBR
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE A

ae

October 1955

  
 

CUR Ry
Agricultural. Harketing Service RENT SERIAL RECORD

Grain Division
Weshington 25, D. Ce. * APR 26 1956

wSESE DEPARTMENT OF AGRicuLTURE
PROSECUTIONS AND SEIZURES UNDER THE FEDERAL SHED
(July 1, 1954, to June 30, 1955) (377-393)

377. Folsc labeling of alfalfa sced. Y. S. v. E. L. Rickard, operating
the Custer Grain Compeny, Custer, Montana, and Merrit li. licGarty, omployco of
Cargill, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota. (FS 697)

Conspiracy to viol~te the Federal Sccd Act. U. S. v. E. Lb. Rickard,
Merrit I. MeCarty, Reymond J. Higgin, Lewrence J. Kane, and Benjamin A. ledealt,
employees of Cargill, Inc., Minneepolis, Minnesote. (FS 697)

E, L, Rickard, opernting the Custer Grain Company, Custer, Montana between
November 14 .nd November 29, 1950, delivered for transport*tion in interstate
commerce from Custer, Montana, to linncapolis, Liinncsota, a total of 1,184 bags
of alfalfa secd,

Merrit li. McCarty, employee of Cargill, Inc., Minneapolis, Minncsota,
between November 14 2nd Decomber 15, 1950, delivercd for transportation in
intcrst.te commerce from Custer, Montena, to Minneapolis, Minnesota, a total
of 2,637 bags of alfalfa sccd,

Labels attached to the bags represcntcd the sccd to be of lfiontana origin;
whereas, thé sccd wes not of Montana origin but was wholly or in part of
California origin,

Information was filed in the District Court of the Unitéd States for the
State of Minnesota alloging that E. L. Rickard and Morrit M. McCarty did unlaw-
fully deliver for transportation in interstate commerce the above—identified
shipments of seed in violation of the Federal Sced Act. Information was also
filcd in the same court alleging thit Morrit M. McCarty, Raymond J. Higgin,
Lawrence J. Kane, and Bonjamin A. Medcalf, employees of Cargill, Inc., Minncapolis,
Minnesota, did conspire to violate the Federal Seed Act, as described above.

On Vay 24, 1954, E. L. Rickard and Merrit li. licCarty entered pleas of
nolo contendere on four counts 2nd nine counts, respectively, and also to the
conspirscy charge, and on October 22, 1954, the Court imposcd a fine of $500
on E. L, Rickard 2nd a fine of $100 on Merrit Ii. MeCarty. Five additionrl
counts involving alleged falsc labeling of 1,453 bags of alfalfa seed as to
origin were also filed against E. L. Rickard but were dismissed by the court.

Conspirzcy charges filed agninst Reymond J. Higgin, Lawrence J. Kane, and
Benjamin A. Medcealf in connection with these transactions resulted in a fine of
100 each being imposed agzinst Reymond J. Higgin and Lawrence J. Kane and a sus—
pended sentence with 2 years! probation being imposed against Bonjemin A. Medcalf.

Agriculture — Washington