U. S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

Office of Information - No. 2
ir. Harding ' July 1, 1947

A USDA Document

Reference Roon: ABRIDGED LIST OF FEDERAL LAWS APPLICABLE TO AGRICULTURE

(including Reference to Former Set )

Jécember 7, 1796: George Washington in his last message to Congress recommended
ne use of public funds in aid of agriculture and the establishment of boards

.to collect and diffuse agricultural information. January 11, 1797: A committee

18
* sioner, th

FAS 1

of the House of Representatives recommended the establishment of a national
ricultural Doard or society. The House established a committee on agriculture
in, 1620 and the Senate one in 1825. n 1828 Congress authorized the publication
of a manual, prepared by Richard Rush, Secretary of the Treasury, and containing
the best available information on the culture and manufacture of silk, and also
of Count Von Hazzi's Creatise on the Rearing of Silk-Worms.)

  

4s

}

Maren 3, 1849: Congress authorized the Commissioner of Patents to exnend the
sum of $1, 000 for the collection of agricultural statistics and for other agri-
cultural purposes. (5 Stat. 353.)
Hay 15, 1862: A law establishing a Denartment of re under a commis-—
© general design and duties of which vere to acquire and to diffuse
ationg the people of the United States useful information on subjects connected
with agriculture, in the most general and comprchensive sonse of that word,
and to procure, propagate, and distribute among the peovle new and valuable seods
and plants. (12 Stat. 387.)

dune 2, omermlsbe: The first Morrili Land-Grant College act, granting (origin o
grants-in-aid) to each of the States an amount of public land equal to ace
acres for each Senator and Representative it had in Congress, or the equivalent in
Land script, proceeds from the sate of which were to be used for the endowment,
support, and maintenance of at least one college where the leading subjects

wouid be branches of learning related to agriculture and the mechanic arts.

August 30, 1890: The second Morrill Land-Grant College Act vroviding further
endowments for more precisely specified educational vurvoses, and also authoriz-—
ing the establishment of colleges for Negroes in States or Territories where a
distinction of race and color is made in the admission of students. March h,
1907: The so-called Selson Amerdment appropriating $25,000 to colleges of agri-
culture and mechanic arts with the provision that a portion of the funds might

be used for the training of teachers of elementary agriculture. (7 UW SIC 301 =0 5

321-23.)

 

May 29, 1884: An act establishing the Bureau of Animal Industry, intended to
prevent exvortation of diseased cattle, and the spread of contagious, infectious,
and communicable diseases of domestic animals and live poultry. (7 U.S.C. 391.)

 

Note: U. S. Code citations are to the 190 Edition; in the absence of code
references, citations are to U. S. Statutes at Large.