MPARIMENT OF AGRICULTURE

Lae o * 2, =
Office of Information = . NVOle: ee
Mr. Hardin = . A USDA Document

Revised, -October 25, 1947

3S OF PERSONS IN CHARGE 0

te

 

FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL WORK, 1836 to DATE

 

(Commissioners of Patents, Sunerintendents of Agriculture,
Commissioners of Agriculture, and Secr

Commissioners of Paien

 

 

Federal aid to American agriculture began in the Patent Office, then in the
Department of State, while Henry L. Ellsworth (1791-1858) w

  

 

 

s
Patents. Slisworth served fron July 4, 1846, when the »resent natent law went
into effect, until May 4, 185, Actual financial aid to agriculture, for the
first time in our history, was vrovided in 1839, the Patent Office being
authorized to expend $1,000 for the collection and dissemination of agricultural

seed, plants, anc statistics.

Hlisvorth was a son of the third Chief Justice of the United State
Oliver Hllsvorth. Ee was dorn in Connecticut where he later See
_.farmed. He became a leader of the Hartford County Asricultu
Nected Mayor of Harsford, weich vosition he resis
‘Ad of the Patent Office by President Jackson's annoi
bent law went into effect e next year, he Decame ov

JE eaweige .

   
   
 
  

 

     

    

iene

the time of his appointment Elisworth was president of the Aetna Insurance

— ee U
Aompoany , was active and successful both in dusiness and in civic a
worked zealously for egriculturel srogress. After he became Commissioner
Pavents he zratuitcusly distributed »mlanis and seeds transmitted
did at his ovm expense end without Congressional suthori

35

agitated for Federal aid to the farmer.

  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 

 

  

Qn January 21, -1839, the Zon. Isaac
House Committee on Patents, provide
to him complete information re
OxTice. Hlisworth »resented thi
Division was created in the
tne small funds srovided

 

When he resigicd, Bllsvorth went to live on farm land he
Indiana. He became Land Commissioner of the United Statcs and
until a fei montns before his death on Decomber 27, 1858, whon

Piimero rc Feir Haven, Connecticut. He beeveathed his ka

 

    

me co

in westorn Lend to Yale Universi

   

S

Edmund Burke (1809-1852) therovnon vecane Commissione
Vass 1 aoe 4 t. - gz se % wy 4% y

Mee e5,)08"5, until Mar ¢, 1849.. Ho vas Yorn in Vern
edited the Argus in New Hamoshire for some years.

oft
fice agricultu:

   
 
 
 

his

   
 

monoer of Congress. Patent OF