i {
<i ‘

~ U. S. DIPRTAET OF LGRICULTU TT

   

Office of Information _ No.8
ir. Harding, 4842 — ujaeiie dh I
Miss Arnold, 4875 ° A USDA Document

 
       
   

"ABRIDGED LIST OF FEDERAL LAWS APPLICABLE TO AGRICULTURE
_ (Including Reference to Former Functions) -

(December “7: 1796: ' George rEehington a is last message to ponesee vecorneedae!
the use of public funds in. aid of agriculture and the ‘establishment ‘of boards to —
collect and diffuse agricultural information. January IL, 1797: A committee of
the House of, Representatives. recomended: the establishment’of a national agri—
cultural board or. society. The House established a committee on agriculture in
1820 and‘ the Senate one in 1825, In 1828 Congress’ authorized“the publication of
a manual,,prepared by Richard Rush, Secretary of the Treasury’, and containing the
best available information on the culture:and manufacture: of oe and also of.
Count Yon. Hazgi's peer ise on the Boe oe ‘Silk=" ‘ormss') : : ;
vec 3, S39: Bonevess authorized the cum ssveree of. Patents to expend the sum
of $1,000 for the collection of agricultural statistics and for other agriculturel
PURPOS ese: fe stet, 353.)

 

May 15, 1862: A.law establishing a Department Ef figdticvlture under a commissioner
the general design and duties of which were to acquire and to diffuse among the
people of the:United States useful information -on “subjects connected with agri-
culture, in the most general and comprehensive sense’ ofthat word, anc to procure,
propagate, and distribute among the people new and valuable seeds and plants.

(a2 Stat. 387.)

June 2, 1862: The first owean end-Grant College Ree granting (origin of
grants-in-aid) to each of ‘thé States an amoumt of public land equal to 30,000.
acres for each Senator and Representative it had in Congress, or the equivalent ‘
in land’ script, proceeds from the sale of which were to be used for the enaovment-
support, and maintenance of at least one college where the leading subjects would
be branches of learning related to agriculture and the mechanic arts. August 30,
4690: The second Monrill Land-Grant College Act providing further endowments for .
more precisely: specified educational purposes, and also authorizing the establish-

ment of colleges for Negroes in States or Territories where.a distinction of

race and color is made in the admission of students. March i- 1907: The so-
called Nelson Amendment appropriating 325,000 to colleges of.agriculture and
mechanic: arts withthe provision that a portion of the funds might.be used for tac
training of teachers of elementary agriculture. We U.S.C. 301-08, 321-28.)

prevent exportation of diseased cattle, and the spread of contagious, infectious,
and eoeeicable diseases of domestic animals and live poultry: (7 U.S.C. getean

} May 29,-188h:- An act ‘establishing the Bureau of fee meal Industry,. intended to =~

March 2, 1827: The Hateh Agricultural Experiment Stations Act. authorizing ene

establishment, under the direction of the land-grant collages, .of stations in -

the several States to conduct experiments relating to agricultural subg these

stations ForneDe departments of the land-grant colleges. se

Norm U. S. Beda: citations arc ta the 190 EAtions in the Gbsenco oF ecto
references, citations are to J. S. Statutes at Large. 2