a ;
pe ol
Sr
“* ¥ssned January 28,1911.

United States Department of-Agriculture,

   
 

F. & D. No. 974.
S. No. 356.

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY.

NOTICE OF JUDGMENT NO. 710, FOOD AND DRUGS ACT.

ADULTERATION AND MISBRANDING OF OLIVE OIL.

On or about September 14, 1909, George P. Calogera, New York
City, shipped from the State of New York to the State of Georgia
three cases of olive oil, containing twenty-four half-gallon cans and
ninety-six quarter-gallon cans, labeled “ Extra Superfine Olive Oil.
Mannis Olive Oil. Imported and packed by G. P. Calogera, N. Y.,
U.S. A.” Analysis of samples of this product made by the Bureau
of Chemistry, United States Department of Agriculture, showed it
to be adulterated and misbranded within the meaning of the Food
and Drugs Act of June 30, 1906. As it appeared from the findings
of the analyst and report thereon that the said shipment was liable
to seizure under section 10 of the act, the Secretary of Agriculture
reported the facts to the United States attorney for the Northern
District of Georgia.

On October 25, 1909, a libel was filed in the District Court of the
United States for the said district against the three cases of olive
oil, charging the above shipment and alleging the product so shipped
to be adulterated in that cottonseed oil had been mixed with said
olive oil so as to reduce, lower, and injuriously affect its quality;
and alleging the product to be misbranded in that it was labeled
as above set forth, said label being such as to mislead and deceive
the purchaser, as it indicated the product to be olive oil, when in
truth and in fact it was a mixture of olive oil and cottonseed oil;
and praying seizure, condemnation, and forfeiture of the product.

On April 9, 1910, the case came on for hearing, and no claim to the
goods seized having been made, and no answers to the allegations in
said libel having been filed, it was ordered and adjudged by the court
that the said libel and the allegations contained therein be taken pro
confesso, and the said one hundred and twenty cans of olive oil de-

_ scribed in said libel be condemned as being adulterated by having cot-
67985°—No. 710—11