ae

& » ne 2181.
. No. Issued January 10, 1912.

"United States Department of Agriculture,

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY.

NOTICE OF JUDGMENT NO. 1199.

(Given pursuant to section 4 of the Food and Drugs Act.)

ADULTERATION OF TOMATO CATSUP.

On December 19, 1910, the United States Attorney for the Dis-
trict of Indiana, acting upon a report of the Secretary of Agricul-
ture, filed in the District Court of the United States for said district
a libel praying condemnation and forfeiture of 475 cases of tomato
catsup, in the possession of Bement-Rea Co., Terre Haute, Ind.
Each of the cases was labeled: ‘‘2 Doz. No. 14 M. B. Keystone
Tomato Catsup, Bement-Rea Company, Terre-Haute, Ind.” Each
of the bottles in said cases was labeled: ‘‘Keystone Brand Tomato
Catsup, put up for Bement-Rea Company, Terre Haute, Ind.”

Examination of samples of said consignment by the Bureau of
Chemistry of the United States Department of Agriculture showed
said product to contain yeasts and spores 90 per one-sixtieth cmm.,
bacteria 200 million per ce., mold filaments present in 75 per cent of
the microscopic fields examined. The libel alleged that the tomato
catsup, after transportation from the State of Ohio into the State of
Indiana, remained in the original unbroken packages, and was adul-.
terated, in violation of the Food and Drugs Act of June 30, 1906,
because it consisted in whole or in part of a filthy, putrid, or decom-
posed animal or vegetable substance, and was therefore liable to
seizure for confiscation.

The cause coming on to be heard, and it appearing that J. Weller
Co. had appeared as claimants of said product, and filed answer to
the libel, the court found the said product adulterated, as alleged in
the libel, and that the United States was entitled to a decree of con-
demnation and forfeiture, as prayed for in the libel. Accordingly
decree was entered condemning and forfeiting the goods to the
United States, and ordering their destruction by the marshal.

JAMES WILSON,
Secretary of Agriculture.
Wasutneton, D. C., November 9, 1911.

O

16863°—No. 1199-12