F. & D. No. 568.
LS. No. 7762-a. Issued May 27, 1911,

United States Department of Agriculture,

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY.
NOTICE OF JUDGMENT NO. 851, FOOD AND DRUGS ACT.

MISBRANDING OF “MOHAWK BRAND NEUFCHATEL CREAM
CHEESE.”

On or about July 11, 1908, The International Milk Products Com-
pany, Cooperstown, N. Y., shipped from the State of New York to
the District of Columbia a consignment of a food product labeled:
“Mohawk Brand Neufchatel Cream Cheese.’’ Samples from this
shipment were procured and analyzed by the Bureau of Chemistry,
United States Department of Agriculture, and the product was found
to be made from partly skimmed milk and to be of the cottage cheese
or schmierkase type and not of the Neufchatel type. As the findings
of the analyst and report thereon indicated that the product was
misbranded within the meaning of the Food and Drugs Act of June 30,
1906, the said International Milk Products Company and the parties
from whom the samples were procured were afforded opportunities
for hearings. As it appeared after hearings held that said shipment
was made in violation of the act, the Secretary of Agriculture reported
the facts to the Attorney-General with a statement of the evidence
upon which to base a prosecution.

In due course a criminal information was filed in the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of New York
against the said International Milk Products Company, charging
the above shipment and alleging the product so shipped to be mis-
branded in that the sais article of food was represented, by the label
above set forth, to be a “ Neufchatel’’ cheese, which is the distinctive
name of a foreign product of cheese not manufactured in the United
States, and which is commonly known as the distinctive name of a
foreign cheese with distinctive form, character, quality, and manufac-
ture, and in that the product so shipped was not a “ Neufchatel”
cheese of that character but was so falsely and fraudulently labeled
with intent to mislead and deceive the purchaser and for the purpose
of representing it to be a foreign product when in truth and in fact
the article of food was manufactured locally, to wit, at the above-
mentioned Cooperstown, in the State of New York.

92942°—No. 851—11