> itine D

H OLAS Lc : F462
pee .~ ,

F. & D. No. 4468,

S. No. 1491. Issued April 30, 1913,

United States Department of Agriculture,

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY.

NOTICE OF JUDGMENT NO. 2251.

(Given pursuant to section 4 of the Food and Drugs Act.)

ADULTERATION AND MISBRANDING OF SARDINES.

On or about September 3, 1912, the United States Attorney for
the Eastern District of Washington, acting upon a report by the
Secretary of Agriculture, filed in the District Court of the United
States for said district a libel for the seizure and condemnation of
22 cases of sardines remaining unsold in the original unbroken pack-
ages and in the possession of the McClintock-Trunkey Co., a corpo-
ration, Spokane, Wash., alleging that the product had been shipped
from the State of California into the State of Washington on or
about July 11, 1912, and charging adulteration and misbranding in
violation of the Food and Drugs Act. The product was labeled:
(On cases) “100 cans Quarters Humes Best Brand Sardines in Pure
Olive Oil Packed by Cohn-Hume Fisheries Co., San Diego, Cal.”
(On cans) “Humes Best Brand California Specially Selected Sar-
dines Packed in Pure Olive Oil by Cohn-Hume Fisheries Co., San
Diego, Cal.”

Adulteration and misbranding of the product were alleged in the
libel for the reason that the sardines were not packed in pure olive
oil as the label indicated, but cottonseed oil had been used, being
mixed and packed as a substitute for olive oil, and the labeling of the
cans of sardines was misleading and false so as to deceive and mis-
lead the purchaser and so as to offer the contents for sale under the
name of another article.

On October 31, 1912, the said Cohn-Hume Fisheries Co., a corpo-
ration, claimant, San Diego, Cal., having filed its claim and answer
admitting the allegations contained in the libel, judgment of con-
demnation and forfeiture was entered, and it- was further ordered
that the product should be released and delivered to said claimant
upon payment of all the costs of the proceeding and the execution of
bond in the sum of $350, in conformity with section 10 of the Act.

W. M. Hays,
Acting. Secretary of Agriculture.
Wasutneton, D. C., January 25, 1913.
77869°—No. 2251—13
O