S$. R. A.—Chem. Suppl. 18, Issued Septemier 12, 1916.

ro DERPARI MENT OF AGRICUL DURE,

BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY.

C. L. ALSBERG, Cuter or Bureau.

SERVICE AND REGULATORY ANNOUNCEMENTS.
SUPPLEMENT.

N. J. 4351-4400.

[Approved by the Acting Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., August 24, 1916.]

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT.
[Given pursuant to section 4 of the Food and Drugs Act.]

4351, Misbranding of “Dr. Thacher’s Liver and Blood Syrup.” WU. S. v.
48 Bottles of “Dr. Thacher’s Liver and Blood Syrup.” Default
decree of condemnation, forfeiture, and destruction. (F. & D. No.
5858. I. S. No, 8700-h. S. No. E-78.)

On August 17, 1914, the United States attorney for the Southern District of
Georgia, acting upon a report by the Secretary of Agriculture, filed in the
District Court of the United States for said district a libel for the seizure and
condemnation of 48 bottles of “ Dr. Thacher’s Liver and Blood Syrup,” remain-
ing unsold in the original unbroken packages at Savannah, Ga., alleging that
the product had been shipped, on or about July 2, 1914, and transported from
the State of Maryland into the State of Georgia, and charging misbranding in
violation of the Food and Drugs Act, as amended. The retail packages of the
article were labeled: “ Dr. Thacher’s Liver & Blood Syrup 124% Alcohol, Pre-
pared for Thacher Medicine Co., Chattanooga, Tenn. For Liver Complaint,
Biliousness, Constipation, Yellow Jaundice, Malaria, Chills and Fever, In-
digestion, Loss of Appetite, Kidney Troubles, Rheumatism, Catarrh, Blood and
Skin Diseases, and Female Diseases, 905 Guaranteed under Food and Drug
Act, June 30, 1906. Directions One or two teaspoonfuls in water after meals,
increase or decrease the dose as needed to move the bowels freely once a day.
Children in proportion to age and constitution. Price 50 Cents Read the
circular carefully that is wrapped around the bottle.” The bottles were enclosed
in cartons containing circulars which bore numerous claims or statements re-
garding the eflicacy of the preparation.

It was alleged in the libel that the article was misbranded because the fol-
lowing statements appearing upon said circulars were false and misleading:
“Contains no Aloes,” “It contains Iodide Potassium and Sarsaparilla com-
bined with May Apple, Gentian, Juniper Berries, Buchu Leaves, Dandelion
Root, Yellow Dock Root,” and because said product contained no ingredient or
combination of ingredients capable of producing the following therapeutic
effects, which were claimed upon the said bottle labels, cartons, and circulars:
(On bottle) “For Liver Complaint * * * Yellow Jaundice, Malaria,

48687°—16——1 505