S. R. A.—Chem. Suppl. 27. Issued September 18, 1917.

United States Department of Agriculture,
BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY.

Cc. L. ALSBERG, Cuter or Boresv.

SERVICE AND REGULATORY ANNOUNCEMENTS.
SUPPLEMENT.

N. J. 4801-4850.

[Approved by the Acting Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, D, C., August 9, 1917.]

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT.
[Given pursuant to section 4 of the Food and Drugs Act.]

4801 (Supplement to Notices of Judgment 1455 and 4032). Alleged adul-
teration and misbranding of Coca Cola. U.S. v. 40 Barrels and 20
Kegs of Coca Cola. Decision of the Supreme Court of the United
States reversing the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Cireuit, which sustained a judgment of the District Court
for the Eastern District of Tennessee dis sing the libel for con-
demnation and forfeiture of the product referred to above, seixed
under section 10 of the Food and Drugs Act. Case remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with the decision of the Su-
preme Court. (F. & D. No. 966. 8. No, 352.)

 

On May 22, 1916, the above-cited case having come on for final disposition in
the Supreme Court of the United States upon a writ of error to said court,
brought on behalf of the United States, the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the Sixth Circuit, which sustained a judgment of the District Court
of the Eastern District of Tennessee, dismissing the libel for condemnation and
forfeiture of 40 barrels and 20 kegs of Coca Cola, seized under section 10 of the -
Food and Drugs Act, was reversed and the cause remanded for further pro-
ceedings, as will more fully appear from the following decision by the Supreme
Court of the United States.

Mr. Justice Hughes delivered the opinion of the court.

This a libel for condemnation under the Foods and Drugs Act (June 30,
1906, c. 8915, 84 Stat., 768) of a certain quantity of a food product known as
“Coca Cola” transported, for sale, from Atlanta, Georgia, to Chattanooga,
Tennessee. It was alleged that the product was adulterated and misbranded.,
The allegation of adulteration was, in substance, that the product contained an
added poisonous or added deleterious ingredient, caffeine, which might render
the product injurious to health. It was alleged to be misbranded in that the
name “ Coca Cola” was a representation of the presence of the substances coca
and cola; that the product “ contained no coca and little, if any cola” and thus
was an “imitation” of these substances and was offered for sale under thei
“ distinctive name.” We omit other charges which the Government subsequently
withdrew. The claimant answered, admitting that the product contained as

1220°—17——1 375