S. R. A—Chem. Suppl. 39. Issued February 25, 1918.

United States Department of Agriculture,

BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY.
Cc, L. ALSBERG, Chief of Bureau,

SERVICE AND REGULATORY ANNOUNCEMENTS.
SUPPLEMENT.

N. J. 5401—5450.

[Approved by the Acting Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., January 28, 1918.]

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT.
[Given pursuant to section 4 of the Food and Drugs Act.]

5401, Adulteration and misbranding of vinegar. U.S. * * * v. 100 Bar-
rely * * * of Vinegar. Consent decree of condemnation and for-
feiture. (IF. & D. No. 7932. 1. S. No. 11039-m. §S. No. C-612.)

On December 20, 1916, the United States attorney for the Northern District
of Illinois, acting upon a report by the Secretary of Agriculture, filed in the
District Court of the United States for said district a libel for the seizure and
condemnation of 100 barrels of vinegar, remaining unsold in the original un-
broken packages at West Hammond, IIl., alleging that the article had been
shipped on October 3, 1916, by the Benton Fruit Products Co., Benton Harbor,
Mich., and transported from the State of Michigan into the State of Illinois,
and charging adulteration and misbranding in violation of the Food and Drugs
Act. The article was labeled in part: “Benton Fruit Products Co. Benton
Harbor, Mich. Reduced to 4% acetic strength, * * * Fermented cider
vinegar.”

Adulteration of the article was alleged in the libel for the reason that dis-
tilled vinegar, boiled cider, and added ash material had been mixed and packed
therewith so as to reduce, lower, and injuriously affect its quality and strength,
and had been substituted in part for said article.

Misbranding was alleged for the reason that the statement appearing on the
barrels, to wit, “* * * Reduced to 4% acetic strength. * * * Fermented
cider vinegar,” was false and misleading in that it represented that the article
consisted of pure fermented cider vinegar, whereas, in truth and in fact, dis-
tilled vinegar, boiled cider, and added ash material had been mixed and packed
with the article so as to reduce, lower, and injuriously affect its quality and
strength; and for the further reason that said statement deceived and misled
the purchaser into the belief that the article was a pure fermented cider vin-
egar, whereas, in truth and in fact, it was an imitation pure cider vinegar and
was offered for sale under the distinctive name of another article, to wit, pure
fermented cider vinegar.

$0476°—18 1 458