S. R. A.—Chem, Suppl. 85. Issued November 11, 1920.
United States Department of Agriculture,

BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY,

Cc. L, ALSBERG, Chief of Bureau.

 

SERVICE AND REGULATORY ANNOUNCEMENTS.
SUPPLEMENT.

N. J. 7761-7750.

[Approved by the Acting Seerctary of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., October 23, 1920.]

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT.

{Given pursuant to section 4 of the Food and Drugs Act.]

 

7701, Adulteration and misbranding of olive oil. U. 8. * * © v. 56 1-
Quart Cans, 12 3-Gallon Cans, anid 2 1-Gallon Cans of a Product
Purporting to be Olive Oil, Default decree of condemnation, for-
feiture, and sale, (I. & D, No. 9998. I. 8. No, 7924-1. S. No. C-1142.)

On April 4, 1919, the United States attorney for the District of Indiana, acting
upon a report by the Secretary of Agriculture, filed in the District Court of the
United States for said district a libel for the condemnation and forfeiture of
386 1-quart cans }-galion cans, and 2 1-gallon cans of a product purporting to
be olive oil, remaining unsold in the original unbroken packages at Indianapolis,
Ind., alleging that the article had been shipped on or about December 13, 1918,
by P. D'Anna, Chicago, IIL, and transported from the State of Illinois into the
State of Indiana, and charging adulteration and misbranding in violation of the
Food and Drugs Act, as amended. Said article was labeled in part, “ Extra
Quality Olive Oil F, Arrigo Termini Imerese Italia Sicilia.”

Adulteration of the article was alleged in the libel for the reason that a
substance consisting in part of cottonseed oil had been mixed and packed with
the article so as to reduce, lower, and injuriously affect its strength, and had
been substituted in part for pure olive oil, which the article purported to be.

Misbranding of the article was alleged for the reason that said article was
an imitation of, and was offered for sale under the distinctive name of, another
article, to wit, olive oil, and for the further reason that said article was labeled.
and branded as above quoted so as to deceive and mislead the purchaser thereof
into believing that the product in each of said cans was pure olive oil, when,-
in truth and in fact, said product was an imitation of pure olive oil, Further
misbranding was alleged for the reason that said article was labeled and
branded as aforesaid so as to purport to be a foreign product, when, in fact,
said product was not a foreign product, and for the further reason that said
article was food in package form, and the quantity of the contents was not

 

  

 

13494°—20-—1 161