S R, A.—Chem. Suppl. 54. Issued Aug. 21, 1918,

United States Department of Agriculture,

BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY.

Cc. L. ALSBERG, Chief of Bureau.

 

SERVICE AND REGULATORY ANNOUNCEMEN
SUPPLEMENT.

N. J. 6151-6200,

{Approved by the Acting Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., August 8, 1918.)

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT.
{Given pursuant to section 4 of the Food and Drugs Act.)

6151. Alleged adulteration and misbranding of compound essence grape. U.S. * * * v.
Joseph L. Schider (Jos. L. Schider & Co.). Decision of the Supreme Court of the
United States reversing judgment of the lower court which sustained a demurrer
to the indictment. (F. & D. No. 7805. I. S. No. 12349-K.)

On February 14, 1917, the grand jurors of the United States within and for the
Southern District of New York, acting upon a report by the Secretary of Agriculture,
upon presentment by the United States attorney for the district aforesaid, returned
an indictment against Joseph L. Schider, trading as Jos. L. Schider & Co., New York,
N. Y., charging shipment by said defendant, in violation of the Food and Drugs
Act, on February 25, 1914, from the State of New York into the State of Virginia,
of a quantity of an article labeled in part, ‘Compound Ess Grape, Jos. L. Schider
& Co., 93-95 Maiden Lane, New York,” which was alleged to have been adulterated
and misbranded.

Analysis of the sample of the article by the ureau of Chemistry of this department
showed the following results:

MiMbyavolumel (Percent) arescse cs. feo n. eee eee cnwarsaean cs 13.5

This product is an alcoholic solution of essential oils, which appear to
be amyl acetate and methyl-amido-ortho-benzoate. The precipitated
oil has a strong blue fluoresence and formed a white sulphate compound
in dry ether solution with sulphuric acid. The odor of a dilute solution of
this sample suggests the flavor of grapes.

Adulteration of the article was charged in the indictment for the reason that an
imitation grape essence, artificially prepared from alcohol, water, and synthetically
produced imitation essential oils, had been mixed therewith so as to reduce and lower
and injuriously affect its quality and strength, and had been wholly substituted for
a true grape product, which the article purported to be.

Misbranding of the article was charged for the reason that the statement, ‘Ess
Grape,’’ appearing on the label, regarding the article and the ingredients and sub-

70786—18——1 177