S. R, A—Chem. Suppl. 201 Issued October, 1925

United States Department of Agriculture

SERVICE AND REGULATORY ANNOUNCEMENTS

BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY
SUPPLEMENT

N. J. 13501-13550

[Approved by the Acting Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., October 10, 1925]

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT
[Given pursuant to section 4 of the food and drugs act]

13501. Adulteration of canned salmon, U. S. v. 250 Cases of Salmon.
Consent decree of condemnation and forfeiture. Product re-
lensed under bond to be reconditioned. (F. & D,. No. 19068. I. 8S,
No. 6258-v. 8. No. C-3020.)

On October 17, 1924, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of
Texas, acting upon a report by the Secretary of Agriculture, filed in the
District Court of the United States for said district a libel praying the seizure.
and condemnation of 250 cases of salmon, remaining in the original unbroken
packages at McKinney, Tex., alleging that the article had been shipped by the
Carlisle Packing Co., from Seattle, Wash., September 4, 1924 (1f and
transported from the State of Washington into the State of Texas, and charg-
ing adulteration in violation of the food and drugs act. The article was labeled
in part: ‘“‘Heron Brand Pink Salmon * * * Distributed by Carlisle Pack-
ing Co. Seattle, Wash.”

Adulteration of the article was alleged in the libel for the reason that it
consisted wholly or in part of a filthy, decomposed, and putrid animal substance.

On March 6, 1925, the Carlisle Packing Co., Seattle, Wash., having appeared
as claimant for the property and having consented to the entry of a decree,
judgment of condemnation and forfeiture was entered, and it was ordered by
the court that the product be released to the said claimant upon payment of
the costs of the proceedings and the execution of a bond in the sum of $250,
in conformity with section 10 of the act, conditioned in part that it be salvaged
and reconditioned in accordance with law.

W. Dunvap, Acting Secretary of Agriculture.

 

 

13502. Adulteration and misbranding of butter. U.

S. v. Joseph A. Long,
Florence Colel

or, John Weddington, Dan Asheratt, and Low
Smita 5 Co,). Pleas of guilty. 0 and costs.
(BF. 19271. I. S 2 .

On May is ae ‘the grand jurors of the United Since within and for the
District of Indiana, acting upon a report by the Secretary of Agriculture, upon
presentment by the United States attorney for id district, returned in the
District Court of the United States for the district aforesaid an indictment
against Joseph A. Long, Florence Colclessor, John Heddington, Dan Asheraft,
and Lou Smith, trading as J. A. Long Co., Union City, Ind., charging shipment
by said defendants, in violation of the food and drugs act, in various con-
signments, namely, on June 7 and 30, and August 9, 1923, respectively, from
the State of Indiana into the State of New York, of quantities of butter which
was adulterated and a portion of which was also misbranded. One shipment
was contained in packages labeled in part: “Pure Creamery Butter.” Two
shipments of the said article was contained in tubs and was billed or invoiced
as butter.

       

     

 

 

        

261