S. R. A.—Chem, Suppl. 148. Issued January, 1923.

United States Department of Agriculture.

 

SERVICE AND REGULATORY ANNOUNCEMENTS.

BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY.
SUPPLEMENT.

N. J. 10851-10900.

[Approved by the Acting Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., December 15, 1922.]

 

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT.
[Given pursuant to section 4 of the Food and Drugs Act.]

10851, Adulteration of tomato sauce. U. S. v. 50 Cases of Tomato Sauce.
Default deeree of condemnation, forfeiture, and destruction, (F.
& D. No, 14432. I. S. No, 1659-t. S, No, C-2718-a,)

On January 17, 1921, the United States attorney for the Western District of
Louisiana, acting upon a report by the Secretary of Agriculture, filed in the
District Court of the United States for said district a libel for the seizure and
condemnation of 50 cases of tomato sauce, at Crowley, La., alleging that the
article had been shipped by the J. T. Polk Co., from Mound City, Ill, on or
about November 29, 1920, and transported from the State of Illinois into the
State of Louisiana, and charging adulteration in violation of the Food and
Drugs Act. The article was labeled in part: “ Contents 8 Ounces, Polk’s Best
Spanish Style Tomato Sauce. J. T. Polk Company, Chicago, U. S. A.”

Adulteration of the article was alleged in the libel for the reason that it
consisted wholly or in part of a filthy, decomposed, and putrid vegetable sub
stance.

On May 16, 1922, no claimant having appeared for the property, judgment of
condemnation and forfeiture was entered, and it was ordered by the court that
the product be destroyed by the United States marshal.

C. F. Marvin, Acting Secretary of Agriculture.
10852. Adulteration and misbranding of grape cordial. U. S. v. 1 Keg of
Nonalcoholic Artificial Flavor and Color Red Grape Cordial. De-
fault decree ordering destruction of product. (I'. & D. No. 14593.
I. 8. No, 8274-t. §. No. E-3160.)

On or about March 7, 1921, the United States attorney for the Northern Dis-
trict of West Virginia, acting upon a report by the Secretary of Agriculture,
filed in the District Court of the United States for said district a libel for the
seizure and condemnation of 1 keg of nonalcoholic artificial flavor and color red
grape cordial, remaining unsold in the original package at New Martinsville,
W. Va., alleging that the article had been shipped by the Arlette Fruit Prod-
ucts Co., St. Louis, Mo., from Hast St. Louis, Ill, on or about December 8, 1920,
and transported from the State of Illinois into the State of West Virginia, and
charging adulteration and misbranding in violation of the Food and Drugs Act,
as amended. The article was labeled in part: “* * ™* Red Grape Cordial
* * * Arlette Fruit Products Co. St. Louis, Mo.”

Adulteration of the article was alleged in substance in the libel for the
reason that an artificially colored mixture of sugar, saccharin, tartaric acid,
water, and benzoic acid had been mixed and packed with and substituted wholly
or in part for the said artide. Adulteration was alleged for the further reason
that the article was mixed and colored in a manner whereby damage and
inferiority were concealed, and for the further reason that it contained an
added poisonous and deleterious ingredient, to wit, saccharin, which might
render the article injurious to health.

20511—22——_1 473