S. R. A.—Chem. Suppl. 196 Issued June, 1925

United States Department of Agriculture

SERVICE AND REGULATORY ANNOUNCEMENTS

BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY

SUPPLEMENT
N, J. 18251-13300

[Approved by the Acting Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., June 20, 1925]

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT
Given pursuant to section 4 of the food and drugs act]

18251, Adulteration and alleged misbranding of butter. U. S. v. South
Hero Creamery Assoc. Tried to the court and a jury. Verdict
of guilty on adulteration charge and of not guilty on misbrand-
ing charge. Fine, $25. (F. & D. No. 19269. I. S. No. 16844-v.)

, At the February, 1925, term of the United States District Court, within and

for the District of Vermont, the United States attorney for said district,

acting upon a report by the Secretary of Agriculture, filed in the district court
aforesaid an information against the South Hero Creamery Assoc.. a corpora-
tion, South Hero, Vt., alleging shipment by said company, in violation of the
food and drugs act as amended, on or about June 23, 1924, from the State of

Vermont into the State of Massachusetts, of a quantity of a product invoiced

as butter, which was alleged to have been adulterated and misbranded.

Analyses of samples of the article by the Bureau of Chemistry of this de-
partment showed that the average butterfat content of five samples was 78.39
per cent.

Adulteration of the article was alleged in the information for the reason
that a product deficient in butterfat had been substituted for butter. which the
said article purported to be, and for the further reason that a product which
consisted of less than 80 per cent by weight of milk fat had been substituted
for butter, a product which should contain not less than 80 per cent by weight
of milk fat, as prescribed by the act of March 4, 1923, which the said article
purported to be.

Misbranding was alleged for the reason that the article was food in package
form and the quantity of the contents was not plainly and conspicuously
marked on the outside of the package.

On March 13, 1925, the case came on for trial before the court and a jury.
After the submission of evidence and arguments of counsel, the court delivered
the following instructions to the jury (Howe, D. J.) :

“GENTLEMEN OF THE Jury: There are just two questions of fact in this
case for you to decide; one question of fact on each charge. There are two
charges that the Government makes against the South Hero Creamery. First,
they say that they shipped in interstate commerce some butter that didn’t
contain SO per cent of butterfat, that that shipment was made on the 23rd
day of June; and second, they say that they shipped this butter in interstate
commerce without marking on the tubs the weight. It is an offense against
the laws of the United States to ship in interstate commerce any butter that
contains less than 80 per cent of milk fat, or butterfat; those terms we have

129

 
 

(eh