S. R. A. Cheny. Suppl. 221 Issued January, 1927

United States Department of Agriculture

SERVICE AND REGULATORY ANNOUNCEMENTS
BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY

SUPPLEMENT

N. J. 14501-14550

[Approved by the Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., January 13, 1927]

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT

(Given pursuant to section 4 of the food and drugs act]

14501. Misbranding of Bronchini. U. S. v, 24 Bottles, et al., of Bronchini.
Default decrees of conde tion, forfeiture and destruction.
(F. & D, Nos. 19861, 19902. S. Nos, E-3945, E-3948.)

On March 9 and 20, 1925, respectively, the United States attorney for the
Northern District of West V nia, acting upon reports by the Secretary of
Agriculture, filed in the Dist Court of the United States for said district
libels praying seizure and condemnation of 197 bottles of Bronchini, at Wheel-
ing, W. Va., alleging that the article had been shipped by William M. Chap-
pelear & Sons Co.. from Zanesville, Ohio, in yarious consignments, April 18
and October 29, 1924, and February 20, 1925, respectively, and transported from
the State of Ohio into the State of West Virginia, and charging misbranding
in violation of the food and drugs act as amended. The article was labeled
in part: (Bottle) “Chappelear’s Bronchini * * * Relieves Bronchitis
* * * When cough is very distressing, repeat the dose * * * Croup
* * * For severe attac! ot Asthma,” (wrapper) “Bronchini * * *
For The Relief Of Bronchit: * * * Sore Throat, Asthma, Influenza, Croup,
Throat and Lung Troubles.”

Analysis by the Bureau of Chemistry of this department of a sample of the
article showed that it consisted of ammonium chloride, extracts of plant
drugs, flavoring material including anise and sassafras oils, sugar, alcohol,
and water.

Misbranding of the article was alleged in the libels for the reason that the
labels on the bottles containing the article declared that. it contained 40 per
cent by volume of alcohol, which declaration was false and misleading, in
that the said article contained much less than 40 per cent by volume of alcohol.

Misbranding was alleged for the further reason that the labeling contained
the following statements, regarding the curative and therapeutic effects of the
article: (Circular) Bronchini The Great Cough Remedy By its peculiar in-
fluence over disease of the throat and respiratory organs, it has given relief
when quick results were essential. Bronchini will stop cough instantly. A
cold induces cough at night. One or two doses of Bronchini given on retiring
will bring perfect rest during the night. One dose on arising will clear up the
throat and relieve the cough during the day. Bronchitis follows colds. If you
can arrest the disease before it reaches the lungs you have accomplished much,
as it will surely enter the lungs if neglected. Bronchini is the only cough cure
we have ever known that will most certainly produce the desired effect in the
treatment of Bronchial cough. Croup can be prevented, and night croup in all
eases can be cured by its use. Bronchini should be given on first appearance

20444—97. if 205,