hh J., FD, 18701-18725 \
i

United States Department of Agricultiire

FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT

{Given pursuant to section 4 of the food and drugs act]

18701-18725

[Approved by the Secretary of Agricu:ture, Washington, D. C., April 21, 1932]

 

anding and alleged adulteration of canned grapefruit juice.

U. S. ve 150 Cases, et al., of Grapefruit Juice. Consent decree of
pang and forfeiture. Product released under bond.
. No. 26509. I. 8. Nos. 22812, 22813. §. No. 4811.)

Examination of samples of canned grapefruit juice from the shipment herein
described having shown that the cans contained less than the volume declared
on the iabels, also that portions of the article contained undeclared added
sugar, the Secretary of Agriculture reported the matter to the United States
attorney for the Northern District of California.

On June 17, 1931, the United States attorney filed in the District Court of
the United States for the district aforesaid a libel praying seizure and con-
demnation of 150 cases each containing 24 cans, and 115 cases each containing
48 cans of grapefruit juice, remaining in the original unbroken packages at
San Francisco, Calif., alleging that the article had been shipped by the Nassau
Packing Co., from Jacksonville, Fla., on or about May 6, 1931, and had been
transported from the State of Florida into the State of California, and charg-
ing adulteration and misbranding in violation of the food and drugs act as
amended. i

A portion of the article was labeled in part: (Can) “Florida Chief Pure
[The word “ Pure” was omitted on certain of the cans of this lot.] Grapefruit
Juice Contenis 1 Pt. 2 Fl. Oz. Packed“by the Grapefruit Packing Co. S. S.
Goffin, Jacksonville, Florida.” The remainder of the said article was labeled
in part: (Can) “Florida Chief Brand Slightiy sweetened [On some cans the
word “Pure” appeared in place of “ Slightly sweetened.”] Grapefruit Juice
Contents 10 Ozs. packed by the Grapefruit Packing Company S. S. Goffin,
Jacksonville, Florida.”

It was alleged in the libel that the article was adulterated in that added
sugar had been substituted in part for the said article.

Misbranding was alleged for the reason that the statements, on the can labels,
“Contents 10 Ozs.” and “Contents 1 Pt. 2 Fl. Oz.,” were false and misleading
and deceived and misled the purchaser when applied to an article which was
short volume. Misbranding was alleged for the further reason that the article
was food in package form and the quantity of the contents was not plainly
and conspicuously marked on the outside of the package. It was also alleged in
the libel that the article, with the exception of the cans bearing the words,
“ Slightly sweetened,” was further misbranded in that the statements, “ Grape-
fruit Juice ” and “ Pure Grapefruit Juice,” on the labels, were false and mislead-
ing, and deceived and misled the purchaser; and for the further reason that
it was offered for sale under the distinctive name of another article, to wit,
grapefruit juice, which it purported solely to be.

On June 29, 1931, Hamilton & Rausher, San Francisco, Calif., having appeared
as claimant for the property and having consented to the entry of a decree,
judgment was entered finding the product misbranded and ordering its con-
demnation and forfeiture, and it was further ordered by the court that the
said product be released to the claimant upon payment of costs and the execu-
tion of a bond in the sum of $200, conditioned in part that it be made to conform
to the Federal food and drugs act under the supervision of this department.

ArTHur M. Hyps, Secretary of Agriculture.
110072—32——1 489