ie Jn F. D, 16776-16896 Issued May, 1930

United States Department of Agriculture

FOOD, DRUG, AND INSECTICIDE ADMINISTRATION

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT

[Given pursuant to section 4 of the food and drugs act]
16776-16800
[Approved by the -Acting Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., May 10, 1930]

16776. Misbranding and alleged adulteration of Nose-Ions. U.S. v. 9
Dozen Tubes of Nose-Fons. Decree of condemnation and_forfei-
ture. Product released under bond. (F. & D. No, 23835. I. S. No.
03742, S$. No. 1982.)

Gn or about June 28, 1929, the United States attorney for the District
of New Jersey, acting upon a report by the Secretary of Agriculture, filed in
the District Court of the United States for said district a libel praying seizure
and condemnation of 9 dozen tubes of Nose-Ions, remaining in the original
unbroken packages at Jersey City, N. J., alleging that the article had been
shipped by the Nose-Ions Co., from Brooklyn, N. Y., on or about March 2,
1929, and transported from the State of New York into the State of New
Jersey, and charging adulteration and misbranding in violation of the food and
drugs act as amended.

Analysis of a sample of the article by this department showed that it
consisted essentially of petrolatum, quinine sulphate, salicylic acid, camphor,
and eucalyptol.

It was alleged in the libel that the article was adulterated in that it was sold
under the following standard of strength, (display carton, retail carton, tube
label, and Circular) “Antiseptic and Germicide,” whereas the said article fell
below such professed standard.

Misbranding was alleged for the reason that the statement on the display
carton, retail carton, tube label, and in the circular accompanying the shipment,
“Antiseptic and Germicide,” was false and misleading. Misbranding was alleged
for the further reason that the following statements regarding the curative and
therapeutic effects of the article, (display carton, retail carton, tube label, and
circular) ‘Indications: Catarrh, Grippe * * * Bronchitis, Hay fever,
Rhinitis, te. ,’ (circular) “In Grippe, Influenza, Hay Fever, Rhinitis, Enary ne
gitis, Laryngitis, Bronchitis, Measles, Scarlet Fever, Coughs, Ete. * *
Many doctors apply Nose-Ions in their nostrils before operating or visiting
patients, also before and after automobile and railroad trips to prevent infec-
tion through the respiratory tract. * * * Nose-Ions applied daily into the
nostrils of a healthy person aids to maintain the normal condition of the mu-
cous membrane. It * * * gives tone to the vocal cords, prevents catarrhal
inflammations, and if applied while the patient is suffering from * * * Influ-
enza, etc., it will effect relief more speedily and effectively than any other
remedy. * * * A remedy for Grip, Rhinitis, Pharyngitis, Laryngitis, Bron-
chitis and to prevent Complications of the Respiratory Tract in Measles, Scarlet
Fever, Etc. Good for scalp and skin diseases. [Similar statements in foreign
languages] Nose-Ions as a Preventive. The fact that germs enter the system
through the nose is established beyond a doubt. Nose-Ions applied daily into
the nostrils of a healthy person will help to prevent infection,’ were false and
fraudulent in that the article contained no ingredient or combination of in-
gredients capable of producing the effects claimed, and in that the said state-
ments were applied to the article knowingly and in reckless and wanton
disregard of their truth or falsity, so as to represent falsely and fraudulently
to purchasers thereof that it was composed of or contained ingredients or

107502—30——1 489