CN
—=
a

J United States Department of Agrigultw rr

FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT

[Given pursuant to section 4 of the food and drugs act]

18351-18400

[Approved by the Seerctary of Agriculture, Washington, D, C., January 22, 1932]

. Mishe
Bot
cond
No.

  

nding of Dr.
of Dr. Livin
BETO forfeit
S. No. 4444.)

Examination of a drug product, known as Dr. Livingston’s Special Invigora-
tor, from the shipment herein described having shown that the bottle label bore
statements representing that the article possessed curative and therapeutic
properties which it did not possess, also that the article contained a larger pro-
portion of alcohol than declared on the label, the Secretary of Agriculture
reported the matter to the United States attorney for the Southern District
of Florida.

On April 20, 1931, the United States attorney filed in the District Court of
the United States for the district aforesaid a libel praying seizure and con-
demnation of 19 botties of the said Dr. Livingston’s Special Invigorator, re-
maining in the original unbroken packages at Tampa, Fla., alleging that the
article had been shipped by the Search Warrant Liniment Co., from Griffin, Ga.,
on or about May 1, 1930, and had been transported from the State of Georgia
into the State of Florida, and charging misbranding in violation of the food
act as amended.

ston’s

 

Special Invigorate
gorator. De
ure, and destruc tion. (F. & D,

  
  

   

   
   

 

  

 

 

   

 
 
 
   

Analy of a sample of the article by this department showed that it con-
sisted essentially of Epsom salt (6.5 grams per 100 milliliters), extracts of
plant drugs including. senna, alcohol (15.2 per cent by volume), sugar, and
water.

It was alleged in the libel that the article was misbranded in that the state-
ment on the bottle label, “Guaranteed under the Food and Drugs Act,
June 30, 1906, No. 10,409,” was false and misleading. Misbranding was alleged
for the further reason that the bottle label failed to bear a statement of the
quantity or proportion of alcohol contained in the article, since the quantity
stated, namely, “2 per cent Pure Alcohol,” was incorrect. Misbranding was
alleged for the further reason that the following statements appearing on the
bottle label, regarding the curative or therapeutic effects of the article, were
false and fraudulent, since the article contained no ingredient or combination
of ingredients capable of producing the effects claimed: “Dr. Livingston’s
Special Invigorator, The Great Vitalizer and Nerve Tonic, Nature’s wonderful
aid to suffering humanity. To build and tone up male or female. It Has No
Equal.”

On May 27, 1931, no claimant having appeared for the property, judgment
of condemnation and forfeiture was entered, and it was ordered by the court
that the product be destroyed by the United States marshal.

ArTHuR M. Hyper, Secretary of Agriculture.

 

18852. Misbranding of Jones’ liniment. U. S. v. 36 Bottles of Jones’ Lini-
ment. Default decree of condemnation, forfeiture, and destruc-
tion. (F. & D. No. 26123. I. S. No. 27530. S. No, 4434.)

Examination of a drug product, known as Jones’ liniment, having shown that
the carton and bottle labels and the accompanying circular bore statements
Tepresenting that the article possessed curative and therapeutic properties which

90019—32——1 - 235