oy
i

   

~ Eee i

Jo) ee

 

 

N. J., FP. D. 17201-17225 i 4 ModlSSedgTapyrazy. 1931

 

United States Department of Agriculture

FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT

[Given pursuant to section 4 of the food and drugs act]

17201-17225

[Approved by the Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., January 7, 1931]

17201. Misbranding of Dr. Kaufmann’s sulphur bitters. U. S. v. 22 Bottles,
et al., of Dr, Kaufmann's Sulphur Bitters. Default decrees of
condemnation, forfeiture. and destruction. (F. & D. Nos, 24504,
ROY 24506. I. S. Nos, 026939, 026940, 026941, 033654, S. Nos. 2780, 2781,

(90.

On February 6 and February 8, 1930, respectively, the United States attorneys
for the Eastern District of Missouri and the Eastern District of Louisiana,
acting upon reports by the Secretary of Agriculture, filed in the District Courts
of the United States for said districts libels praying seizure and condemnation of
220 bottles of Doctor Kaufmann’s sulphur bitters, alleging that the article had
been shipped by A. P. Ordway & Co., New York, N. Y., in various consignments,
on or about September 4, September 14, September 25, and October 23, 1929,
respectively, and transported from the State of New York into the States of
Missouri and Louisiana, respectiveiy, and charging misbranding in yiolation of
the food and drugs act as amended.

Analysis of a sample of the article by this department showed that it consisted
essentially of extracts of plant dru: neluding aloe and podophyllum, a small
amount of sulphur, alcohol, and water.

It was alleged in the libels that the article was misbranded in that the
following statements regarding the curative and therapeutic effects of the
said article appearing on the label of the bottle and in the accompanying
booklet, were false and fraudulent, since the article contained no ingred ent or
combination of ingredients capable of producing the effects claimed: (Booklet)
“Sickness and Its Cause. What is the greatest cause of sickness? * * *
Poor, thin, vile, vitiated blood. * * * At times we see people who are
dizzy and have fainting fits. These, when not attended to, will result in a
diseased brain. Now, dear readers, remember what I have told you: Eradi-
cate from your blood all humors; keep it alwa: in a pure condition, and it
is then impossible for you to remain long unwell. Dr. Kaufmann’s Sulphur
Bitters will aid you to do this and keep your blood in good condition, * * *
General Wasting Away. How often we see many people thus afflicted.
* * * The general symptoms of this disease are impaired digestion, loss
of appetite; there is a gradual wasting away of the whole body, loss of
strength, a languid feeling, hectic fever, difficult breathing, and sometimes a
Most severe cough. In children, worms will cause a general wasting away.
In the last twenty years I have noticed this disease in the young of both
sexes, where it has been caused by syphilis or other venereal taint, which
has descended to them from their parents. Is not this a most terrible thing
for parents to thus infect: their own children? And where children are of a
scrofulous habit, I have noticed an enlargement of the glands, with a costive
state of the bowels, indigestion, appetite good one day and poor the next, pallid
or flushed cheeks, emaciated limbs, swelling of the abdomen, and in a great
Many cases horrible eruptions would break out on the arms and thighs, and in
fact all over the body. * * * Im these cases * * * Dy. Kaufmann’s
Sulphur Bitters should be freely used; * * * Heartburn. This is a dis-
ease of the stomach. * * * Use Dr. Kaufmarin’s Sulphur Bitters. Re-

26957311 133