a

    

/
N. J, B.D. 25376-25425

LIBRARY

tyof J ely i}

   

United States Departmes

FOOD AND DRUG ADMENIG

 
   
      
  

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER

{Given pursuant to section 4 of the Food and Drugs Act]

 
 

25376-25425

[Approved by the Acting Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., August 12, 1936]

25376, Misbranding of Essence of Mistol, U.S. v. 66 Bottles of Essence of Mis-
tol. Consent decree of condemnation, forfeiture, and destruction,
(F, & D, no. 29868. Sample no. 26612-A.)

The alcoholic content of this article was not declared.

On February 28, 1933, the United States attorney for the District of Maryland,
acting upon a report by the Secretary of Agriculture, filed in the district court
a libel praying seizure and condemnation of 66 bottles of Essence of Mistol at
Baltimore, Md., alleging that the article had been shipped in interstate com-
merce on or about October 28, 1932, by Stanco Distributors, Inc., from Newark,
N. J., to Baltimore, Md., and charging misbranding in violation of the Food
and Drugs Act. The article was labeled in part: (Bottle) “Essence of Mistol.”

Analysis showed that the article consisted essentially of volatile oils including
menthol, eucalyptol, and camphor, isopropyl alcohol, and water.

The article was alleged to be misbranded in that the label on the carton
failed to bear a statement of the quantity or proportion of the isopropyl alcohol
contained in the preparation.

On February 26, 1936, a consent decree of condemnation, forfeiture, and
destruction was entered,

M. L. Witson, Acting Secretary of Agriculture.

25377. Adulteration and misbranding of Liquid Medicine in Bulk. U. S. v.
Harry Gross and Austin E, Dolan, trading as Dolan Drug & Chemical
Co, Plea of guilty by Harry Gross. Plea of nolo contendere by Austin
E. Dolan. Gross fined $2, and Dolan fined $20. (F, & D. no, 28172.
I. S. no. 037450.)

The label of this article erroneously represented that it was of pharmacopoeial
standard. It also fell below the professed standard under which it was sold,
was an imitation of another article, and its label failed to bear a statement
of its alcoholic content.

On February 14, 1933, the United States attorney for the District of Massa-
chusetts, acting upon a report by the Secretary of Agriculture, filed in the
district court, an information against Harry Gross and Austin E. Dolan,
trading as the Dolan Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, Mass., alleging shipment by
them, in violation of the Food and Drugs Act, on or about February 15, 1939,
from Boston, Mass., to Wichita, Kans., of a quantity of a drug described as
Liquid Medicine In Bulk, which was adulterated and misbranded. The article
was labeled in part: (Barrels) “Liquid Medicine in Bulk. ICC-10.”

Analysis of the article showed it to be a mixture of substances including
phenols, rosin, and alcohol (78.82 percent).

The article was alleged to be adulterated (a) in that it was sold under a
name recognized in the United States Pharmacopoeia, and differed from the
standard of strength, quality, and purity determined by the test laid down in
said pharmacopoeia in that it contained phenols and rosin, and the strength,
quality, and purity of said article was not declared on the container thereof;
and (b) in that its strength and purity fell below the professed standard and
quality under which it was sold, in that said article was represented to be
fluidextract of ginger, U. 8. P., but was not, and was a product composed
in part of phenols and rosin.

207

92415°—36——1