a

N.J., F. D. 30001-30050, | 7) Issued May 1939
= Dw
i } 1 i

Vip

United States Department of Agriculture 0 1939 x
i

FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
£ veat of Agriculture

 

 

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER THE rile tec

[Given pursuant to section 4 of the Food and Drugs Act]

30001-30050

[Approved by the Acting Secretary of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., March 29, 1939]

80001, Misbranding of Chewing Laxative and Cold Tablets, U. S. v. 77 Cartons
of Chewing Laxative and 98 Cartons of Cold ‘Tablets. Default decrees
demnation and destruction. (I. & D. Nos. 43637, 43638. Sample

0-D, 22341-D.)

The labeling of these products bore false and fraudulent curative and thera-
peutic claims and other misrepresentations.

On September 7 and 8, 1938, the United States attorney for the Northern
District of Illinois, acting upon a report by the Secretary of Agriculture, filed
in the district court libels praying seizure and condemmation of the above-
named drug products at Chicago, Ill.; alleging that the articles had been shipped
in interstate commerce on or about July 20, 1938, by Peltz-Kauffer Co., Ine.,
from South Bend, Ind.; and charging misbranding in violation of the Food and
Drugs Act as amended. The articles were labeled: “Blackstone’s Tru Laxative
Bromides Quinine Cold Tablets’; and “Tru-Lax Mint Flavored Chewing
Laxative.”

Analysis showed that the cold tablets consisted of acetanilid (1.5 grains per
tablet), quinine, bromides, and a laxative plant drug; and that the Chewing
Laxative contained phenolphthalein (1 grain per piece), gum, sugar, and flavor-
ing material.

The Chewing Laxative was alleged to be misbranded in that the statement
“Just like your favorite gum for all the world just for pleasure,” appearing
in the circular, was false and misleading since it represented that the article
was just like your favorite gum; whereas it was not since it contained
phenolphthalein. It was alleged to be misbranded further in that the follow-
ing statements in the labeling regarding its curative or therapeutic effects were
false and fraudulent; (Retail carton) “Tru-Lax * * * laxative assimilated
with the saliva will cause your bowels to function without any griping or
distressing feeling”; (display carton) “For Constipation A Pleasant Laxative
for Children * * * Use it For Your Health’s Sake”; (circular) “Its laxa-
tive reaction is quick, generous and inevitable. * * * gentle, smooth and
without upsetting symptoms or distressing upset to the stomach. * * * Get
the habit of chewing ‘Tru-Lax every day so you will help eliminate the causes
of constipation.” The article also was alleged to be misbranded in violation of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.

The cold tablets were alleged to be misbranded in that the statement
“Quinine in this form does not affect the head,” appearing on the box and in the
circular, was false and misleading since it represented that the article would
not affect the head; whereas it would affect the head. It was alleged to be
misbranded further ‘in that the following statements in the labeling regarding
its curative or therapeutic effects were false and fraudulent: (Box) “These
tablets are an ideal preparation for * * * coughs and the grippe. The
second and third dose will alleviate the feverish conditions * * * Take the
tablets sufficiently to keep the bowels open freely until relief sets in’; (display
carton) “For Coughs, * * * For Your Health’s Sake For * * * La
Grippe”; (circular) “These tablets are an ideal preparation for * * *

139713°—39——1 rf)