3

 

 

 

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICUL) URE, ae |
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY * |
WASHINGTON, D, ¢, APR
OFFICE OF ACCOUNTS. U.S. Deprstaest of Aricutture
CL-13A (Revised) March 10 1934. i
|

 

STANDARDIZED GOVERNMENT TRAVEL REGULATIONS -- Revised
Issue date January 30, 1934

List of Additions, Eliminations and Changes

Par.2,p.2 — Reimbursable expenses:~ Modi*ied to read "Traveling expenses which
will be reimbursed are confined to those expenses essential to the trans—
acting of the official business".

Par.3,p.2 ~— Official Station ~- Modified to include "designated post of duty and
official station mean one and the same xx" and to define limits where
headquarters is located in an unincorporated town or on a reservation;
also states that "in no case shall a place within two miles of a traveler's
office or living quarters be considered as away from his post of duty".

Par.9. Routing of travel:— Reference to paragraph 117 in error. Correct reference
is 95.

Par.12.Use of own conveyance — Aciual expense basis:~ Omit reference to travel
on actual subsistence expense basis.

Par.12a. Use of own conveyance - Mileage Basis:~ Modified to read "Mileage in lieu
of actual expenses of transportation under paragraph 12, regardless of
subsistence status and hours of travel may be allowed * * * away from his
designated post of duty or official station as defined in paragraph 3".
Rates changed from three cents for motorcycle and seven cents for automobile
to two cents for motorcycle and five cents for automobile.

Reference to travel on actual subsistence expense basis omitted. Allow-
ance of mileage from and to limits of official station or post of duty only,
inserted.
and employees engaged in necessary travel on official business, away from
their designated post of duty or official station, are authorized to use
their own motorcycles or automobiles, at not to exceed certain rates of
mileage within their respective limited territories whenever the cost
thereof is more economical and advantageous to the United States, there
must be attached to the vouchers covering payment of such mileage a state—
ment of fact showing tha) use of the motorcycle or automobile and the
payment on a mileage basis were more advantagsous and economical to the
United States",

 

 

 

Par.15. Accommodations on trains and steamers. Refers to paragraph 57(b). There
is no paragraph 57(b) in either old or new regulations.

Par.13a. Provides for one standard lower berth for each person and lowest rate
first class stateroom accommodations on steamers.