§. R. A.—Chem. Suppl. 6. Issued July 13, 1915.

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE,
BUREAU OF CHEMISTRY.

Cc. L. ALSBERG, Cer or BurEav.

SERVICE AND REGULATORY ANNOUNCEMENTS.’
SUPPLEMENT.

N. J. 3751-3800.

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT.

[Given pursuant to section 4 of the Food and Drugs Act.]

3751. Aduiteration and misbranding of so-called cognac. U. S. v. 2 One-Eighth Casks of
* * * Cognac. Consent decree of condemnation and forfeiture. Product ordered
released on bond. (F. & D. No. 6004. I. S. Nos. 1629-k, 1630-k. S.No. E-137.)

On October 14, 1914, the United States attorney for the District of Massachusetts,
acting upon a report by the Secretary of Agriculture, filed in the District Court of the
United States for said district a libel for the seizure and condemnation of 2 one-eighth
casks containing a product purporting to be cognac, remaining unsold in the original
unbroken packages at Lawrence, Mass., alleging that the preduct had been shipped
by A. Blum Jr.’s Sons, New York, N. Y., and transported from the State of New
York into the State of Massachusetts, and charging adulteration and misbranding in
violation of the Food and Drugs Act. The product was labeled in part: “Jas, Hen-
nessy Cognac France.’’

Aduiteration of the product was alleged in the libel because substances, to wit,
neutral spirits, had been mixed and packed with said food in such a manner as to
reduce, lower, and injuriously affect its quality and strength. Misbranding was
alleged for the reason that said food upon the packages and Jabels thereof bore a
certain statement, design, and device regarding the ingredients and substances con-
tained therein, that is to say, the following words, ‘‘Jas. Hennessy Cognac France,’
which statement, design, and device was false and misleading because it would lead
the purchaser to believe that said food consisted of cognac, and was the product of a
foreign country, whereas, in truth and in fact, said food was not cognac, and was not
the product of a foreign country.

 

1 The Service and Regulatory Announcements of the Bureau of Chemistry are published in conformity
with a uniform plan for the issuance of information, instructions, and notices of a regulatory nature by
the various branches of the department. During 1915 they will be issued as often as necessary rather than
each month, as in 1914, and will be numbered consecutively, beginning with S. R. A., Chem. 13.

Notices of judgment are issued as supplements to the Service and Regulatory Announcements of the
Bureau of Chemistry. Beginning with January, 1915, they will be numbered and paged independently
of the Service and Regulatory Announcements, the first number being designated as S. R, A., Chem,
Suppl. 1.

Free distribution is limited to firms, establishments, journals, and individuals especially concerned.
Others desiring copies may buy them from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing
Office, Washington, D. C.

96842°—15 —1 303