pina ARY
Pe ee eo

we SEP 111942 %

 
     
   

   

N. J, F. D. 81108-31140 Issued June 1942

U.S, Denartment of Agricuture

FEDERAL SECURITY AGENCY
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION

NOTICES OF JUDGMENT UNDER THE FOOD AND DRUGS ACT

[Given pursuant to section 4 of the Food and Drugs Act]
31106-31140
DRUGS

The cases. reported herewith, commenced prior to June 30, 1940, were insti-
tuted in the United States District Courts by the United States attorneys acting
upon reports submitted by direction of the Secretary of Agriculture; and those
commenced on and after that date were similarly instituted upon reports sub-
mitted-by direction of the Federal Security Administrator.

Paut V. McNwu’
Washington, D. C., March 23, 1942.

Administrator, Federal Security Agency.

 

31106. Adulteration and mish
3, James L. T:
n). Pleas of g
. 61701-D, 61702-D.)

This case involved shipments of prophylactics which were defective because
of the presence of holes.

On August 12, 1940, the United States attorney for the Northern District
of Ohio filed an ‘information against Charles E. Jenkins, James L. Tyrrell, and
| Maurice Gusman, copartners, trading as Killashun Sales Division, at Akron,

Ohio, alleging shipment on or about March 11, 1939, from the State of Ohio
into the State of Texas, of quantities of prophylactics that were adulterated
and misbrandéd. They were labeled in part: “L. E. S. Genuine Liquid Latex.”

The articles were alleged to be adulterated in that their strength and purity
fell below the professed standard and quality under which they were sold in
that they were represented to be disease preventives and were guaranteed to be
effective for such purpose for 5 years; whereas they were not disease pre-
yentives and would not be effective for such purpose for 5 years since they were
in whole or in part defective because of the presence of holes.

They were alleged to be misbranded in that statements borne on the labels,
“Prophylactic * * ™ Guaranteed Five Years * * * For the Prevention
of Disease,” with respect to a portion of the product and the statement, “Guar-
anteed Five Years * * * For the Prevention of Disease” with respect to
the remainder, were false and misleading in that the said statements represented
that the articles would be effective to prevent disease and were guaranteed to
be effective for such purpose for 5 years; whereas the articles would not be
effective to prevent disease and would not be effective for such purpose for
5 years, since they were in whole or in part defective because of the presence
of holes.

The information also charged other shipments of a similar product which
were adulterated and misbranded in violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act, as reported in notice of judgment No. 412, published under that
Act.

On June 18, 1941, the defendants having entered pleas of guilty, the court
imposed a fine of $100 on each count of the information, the fines on the
counts charging violation of the Food and Drugs Act of 1906 amounting to

" 68

 
 
 
 

ics, U. S. v, Charles E.
susman (Killashun Sales
(F. & D. No. 42803. Sample