F.C.R. FEDERAL COURT REPORTS 65

KONDAMUDI SRIRAMULU
vo
MYNENI PUNDARIKAKSHAYYA

{CIVIL APPEAL No. XI oF 1948)

 

TADAVARTI BAPAYYA AND FOUR OTHERS
v,
MYNENI PUNDARIKAKSHAYYA

(CIVIL APPHAL No, XIL oF 1948)

 

(Str Hanivan Kanta C. J.,Srr Fazn Aut
Menr Cuanp Manasan and MuxHerJEA JJ.]

Hindu laws-Guardianship—De facto guardian—Power to
alienate for necessity or benefit of minor—To contract debts—To exe-
cute promissory notes—To acknowledge debts—Rule in Hanooman-
persaud’s case—Scope and applicability to de facto guardians—
Limitation Act (IX of 1908), s. 21.

The plaintiff's adoptive mother, who was his legal guardian
after his adoptive father’s death, had on the 28rd April 1928,
executed a promissory note to the defendant in renewal of
certain prior notes executed by her for debts binding on her de-
ceased husband. After her death the natural father of the plain-
siff entered upon the management of the estate, and on the 22nd
Jane, 1931, professing to act as guardian of the plaintiff he exe-
euted a fresh promissory note to the defendant in the name of
the minor in consideration of the amount due under the promis-
sory note of 1928. On the 2nd June, 1932, he conveyed certain
immoveable properties which belonged to the plaintiff to the
detendant in consideration of the amount due to the defendant
under the promissory note of 1931. At the time of the execution
of the promissory note of 1931 though more than three years had
expired from the date of the previous note of 1928, the courts
were closed and the period for filing a suit upon the note of
1928 had not expired. The plaintiff, after attaining majority,
instituted a suit for setting aside the sale on the ground that his
natural father who was only ade facto guardian had no power to
renew the promissory note of 1928 or to effect a sale in consider-
ation of that note. It was concedéd that the plaintiff’s natural
father had administered the estate to the best of his ability and
that he had executed the promissory note to ward off a suit
against the minor’s estate.

2

1949

Jan, 24,