In order that persons unfamiliar with our productions may orde
through the mails, with confidence that they will receive the best work of
its kind in the market, we publish a few words from eminent men who
have made personal use of onr goods.

The following from Prof. Charles Eliot Norton, of Harvard College: —

CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Oct. 27, 1332.
Sonle whotograph Co., Boston : —

GENTLEMEN, — Your photographie reproductions of ancient and modern works of art
are of great yalne to the student and amateur, Their size makes them conyenient for
use; their price brings them within the attainment of persons of moderate means, and
their trustworthiness and excellent technical quality make them admirable illustri
of any history of the Fine Arts, 1 recommend them constantly in my college classes.

Tam very truly yours,
C. E. NORTON.

    

   

 

 

rom Prof. E. S. Frisbee, President of Wells College :—

Avrora, N. Y., Oet. 24, 1982.
The Soule Photograph Co.:—

GENTLEMEN, —It gives me great pleasure to learn of the additions you are constantly
making to your already large and valuable list of publications. For the past three
T have made extensive use of your pictures, mostly the cabinet and medium sizes, for
the purpose of illustration in the class-room. “They are cheap, conyenicut, most excellent
in «ll that is possible to the photographer's art, accurate in their reproduction of the
originals, and altogether well-nigh indispensable both to the student and the teacher
of the history of art. L cannot but feel the decpest interest in your enterprise, and I not
only congratulate you on your success thus far, but hope and contidently expect that you
will meet with the appreciation of the art-loving public according to the high merit of
your worl

 

     

 

  

 

I remain yery truly yours,
E. S. FRISBE:

 

From Prof. W. T. Harris, Lecturer on Art: —

 

Concorp, Mass., Nov. 10, 15:
The Soule Photograph Co. : —
You are doing a great service to the education of the American people, by offering them
a selection of thousands of pictures from originals, the best engravings and drawings, at
a uniform price so low that all may begin a collection at once, and Koon come to own
hundreds of pictures, the study of which is indispensable to the education of the taste.
Separated as are by an ocean from the muxeums and art-galleries of Europe, it
becomes very important that we shall learn to know these conventional symbols of
culture and refined taste by means of reliable pictures. Your photographs represent in
convenient form the most important masterpicces of the world’s artists in painting,
sculpture, and architecture.
Wo. T. IARRIS.

 

   

   
 

 

 

 

From Prof. E. lorsford : —

 

 

 

Soule Photograph Co. :
G

  

phic copies you have

attained in your

riety of clehings,
factory.

NTLEMEN, —I have great pleasure in saying that the photogr:
ie for me are able specimens of the perfection to which the
hands. The work you have done for me includes a considerab!
engravings, paintings, and photographs, and has been in all respects most sat!
Jam very truly yours,

L. ON, TORSFORD,

       
     

   

 

 

Lantern Slides,

or transparencies for the Stereopticon.

We manufacture, to order, slides of any of the subjects mentioned in
our ¢ logue at a week’s notice.

Parties wishing to order slides may have unmounted cabinet-size plioto-
graphs of the subjects desired sent them, and, if satisfactory, slides will
be furnished from the same negative.

Price of slides, 50 cents each; $6.00 per dozen.

On single orders of 50 slides 10 per cent. discount.

“ee “66 390 BO “