Sculpture.

 

 

Western Side,

Those about to join the procession are represented as in different stages of prep-
ion; some are shown mounted, hastening on; others bridle and hold back
their horses; others await the arrival of friends.

 

Horsemen hastening to join the procession.
Horsemen and youths who have joined the procession.

Ilorsemen who have joined the procession.

  

From that portion of the procession where the vietors of the
games, in chariots, with attendant drivers, head the horsemen.

Figures in the procession from the part representing the aliens

| resident in Attica, who had to undertake certain duties, such as

bearing sunshades, chairs, vases, saucers, pitchers, ete., to remind
them of their dependent condition.

Southern Side.

Representing the performers in the torch-race, arranged in different degrees of age, as

  

 

 

 

youths, boys, and men. Continuing with the story, the slibs next represent the presid-

ing magistrates, and then the sacrificial animals brought by the deputation from the

Colonies.

2056

to Horsemen who have joined the procession.

2070

2071 From that portion of the procession where the Victors in the

to games, in chariots, with attendant drivers, head the horse-

2075 nien,

2076) Presiding magistrates.

2077| ( Officers of the priesthood conducting to sacrifice cattle sent by

to the Colonies of Athens, with their deputations, to take part in

2082 the great Panathenaic festival,

Eastern End.

2083) Chief magistrate marshalling the procession.

2084| Representing females carrying vases.

2085) Representing females carrying vases, and two men, probably mag-
istrates, at the head of the stream of the procession, whieh had
passed round by the north side.

2086; Chief magistrate of Athens.

2087) Centre part of eastern frieze of Parthenon, representing the eulmi-
nating point of the great Panathenaie procession; the gods Termes
(Merenry), Poseidon (Neptune), Demeter (Ceres), and Mephais-
tos (Vulcan), seated.

2088) Centre part of eastern frieze of Parthenon, representing the entmi-
nating point of the great Panathenaic procession, The figures
are Zeus (Jupiter), Hera (Juno), Nike (Vietory), or llebe, and
three maidens

2089) Centre part of eastern frieze of Parthenon, representing the eulmi-
nating point of the great Panathenaic procession 5 3 two seated gods,
and a priest, or the Archon Basileus, receiving from the hands of
a boy the sacred peplus.

2090 . :

2091 { Chiet Magistrates of Athens.

2092) From portion representing maidens carrying vases and gifts at the

head of the stream of the procession, which had passed round by
the south side.