INSTRUCTIONS FOR ORDERING.

1st. Write your full name plainly, with name of Post-Office, County,
and State, on each order.

2d. State amonnt of money sent.

8d. State how you wish goods forwarded, whether by open mail, regis-
tered mail, or express. If by registered mail ten cents should be sent for
registration fee.

4th. When mounted goods or albums are to be sent by mail, sufficient
money should be enclosed to cover postage. If too much is sent the
balance will be promptly returned.

Our Terms
Are strictly cash with order, or C.O.D. by express.

How to send Money.

Money may be safely sent by registered letter, post-office order, ex-
press money order (which can be obtained at any of the American, United
States, or Wells, Fargo express offices), certified check, or draft on Bos-
ton or New York made payable to the Soule Photograph Co., Boston.
Amounts less than five dollars may be sent by postal note, but if lost
cannot be duplicated.

Transportation.

Unmounted goods will be sent post-paid. Mounted photographs and
albums, when the method of transportation is left to us, will be sent by
mail or express as seems cheapest and best.

ixchange.

Unmounted cabinet and medium sizes may be exchanged if not satisfac-
tory, provided they are not retained over ten days, and are received
by us in good condition. No mounted or large unmounted photographs
will be exchanged or credited if returned. Patrons wishing to order
large scraps, mounted goods, or slides for stereopticon, may have small
unmounted copies of subjects desired sent for examination, which will be
charged out when sent, and credited in full when returned in good condi-
tion. Do not fail to write full name and address on the outside of all
return parcels. Order blanks will be sent when requested.

PRICES.
‘These prices apply to all the subjects in this Catalogue, unless otherwise specified.

Unmounted Photographs, or “ Scraps.”

Each. Per doz.

$ .15 $1.50
30 3.00

Cabinet size, about 4 X 6 inches .
Medium size, about 6 X 8 inches .
Large size, about 9 X 12 inches .
Extra size, about 12 X 15 inches ...

  
   

Mounted Photographs.

 

Cabinets on imperial, or on 8 X 10 tinted mounts. .20 82.00

Mediums, on 11 X 14 tinted boards ....... 40 4.00
& on 8 X 10 maroon panels. -60 6.00

Large size, on 16 X 20 white boards 1.00

£xtra size, on 20X24 oe 1.50

N.B.—Ten per cent. discount will be made on cash orders to the
amount of twenty dollars if purchased at one time.

Half-a-dozen or more cabinets or mediums may be figured at dozen
rates.