the same entry in a knowledge base. The corpus was annotated by two annotators over the course of six weeks.

3 Annotation Principles

This section explains the principles of our annotation approach. The application of these principles for annotating
the FCC follows in Section 4.

Annotation Unit. As mentioned previously, cross-subtopic event coreference links occur sparsely throughout
a set of documents. We therefore propose to annotate event mentions entirely at the sentence level. In doing so,
we trade mention span granularity for an increased density of the coreference phenomenon we seek to annotate,
which in turn ensures an affordable annotation. Another implication is that the annotation of sentences becomes
a multi-label task, because a single sentence can mention multiple events. The definition of what triggers an
event mention within a sentence remains a separate question and is unaffected by the change of the annotation
unit. A sentence mentioning an event may depend on participants, time or location mentioned elsewhere in the
document. Therefore, annotating and resolving mentions requires the full document for context.

Annotation Objective. We frame the annotation task as a variation of event linking. Given a query sentence,
several preceding sentences for context and a predefined set of events, annotators need to select the subset of
events which are explicitly mentioned in the query sentence. In the end, all sentences linked to the same event
e will form an event coreference cluster corresponding to e. Note that the set of events is mainly an aid for
annotation and needs not to be provided to coreference resolution systems at training or test time.

Conceptually, the only assets required in our approach are a set of events and a loosely related set of documents.
In domains where the set of to-be-annotated events is known prior to the annotation, such a set of events either
already exists or is easy to construct. Furthermore, given the complexity of annotating cross-document event
coreference, the opportunity of scaling up the annotation far outweighs the comparably small effort of defining
such a set.

Past work on event coreference annotation [BH08; Hov+13b; Vos+18] demonstrated that structuring events in
a hierarchical fashion offers benefits, for example by separating events that are distinct but conceptually related,
which leads to more precise annotations if the hierarchy is relayed to human annotators. We therefore impose a
hierarchical structure on the set of to-be-annotated events via the subevent relation. We follow the definitions of
Hovy et al. [Hov+13b] and define that an event ¢; is considered a subevent of another event e2 if its respective
action, participants, time and location are subsets of the corresponding properties of e2. Note that the annotation
of a list of unrelated events remains possible with our proposed approach, since a list of events can be reformulated
as a flat hierarchy.

Annotation Workflow. For each document, we provide annotators with one predefined event hierarchy.
Given a query sentence, we first ask annotators via binary yes/no question whether the sentence mentions events
from the event hierarchy. If it does, annotators are supposed to select the subset of events from the hierarchy
which are mentioned in the sentence explicitly or by a subevent.

Annotation Aggregation and Agreement. We aggregate the annotations of the binary question into a
gold standard using MACE [Hov+13a]. We obtain a multi-label annotation for each sentence and each annotator
for the event linking annotations. Based on this information, we need to find the gold set of events E* which is
most representative of all annotations.

Identifying this set is challenging because one needs to distinguish between cases where high variance in the
annotations stems from disagreeing annotators or from a genuine case of a sentence deserving multiple labels.
Conceptually, any mention of an event implicitly also functions as a mention for all its super events (i.e. its
ancestors in the event hierarchy). We therefore require that no two events standing in an ancestor relation to
each other in the event hierarchy may be present in the gold set of events of a sentence. We framed the search for
the optimal set E* as a constraint optimization problem based on this condition.

We compute inter-annotator agreement using Krippendorff’s Alpha [Kri04]. Because our labels are sets of
events, we follow the recommendations of Artstein and Poesio [AP08] and use the Jaccard index [Jac12] as a
distance metric.

 

4 A Corpus of Sports News Reports

We applied our annotation approach to create the Football Coreference Corpus (FCC), the first corpus which
focuses on cross-subtopic event coreference relations. Due to the sparsity of this event coreference phenomenon,
one needs to draw a large sample of articles from the same topic to obtain sufficiently many and sufficiently
large coreference clusters. We therefore decided to annotate documents from the sports domain, specifically

25