Preprint. Under review.

 

aggregation for each coloring, and its complexity is also proportional to the number of chosen
colorings k = |C;,|. Hence the complexity of the algorithm is in O(kKET).

Note that the number of all possible colorings for a given graph depends exponentially in the size of
the groups Vj, ..., Vx,

K

le(v, A)| = T] 1Vel!. ©)

k=1

and thus oo-CLIP is practical only when most node attributes are dissimilar. This worst case
exponential dependency in the number of nodes can hardly be avoided for universal representations.
Indeed, a universal graph representation should also be able to solve the graph isomorphism problem.
Despite the existence of polynomial time algorithms for a broad class of graphs (Luks|
[Bodlaender}[T990), graph isomorphism is still quasi-polynomial in general 2016). As a result,
creating a universal graph representation with polynomial complexity for all possible graphs and
functions to approximate is highly unlikely, as it would also induce a graph isomorphism test of
polynomial complexity and thus solve a very hard and long standing open problem of theoretical
computer science.

6 EXPERIMENTS

In this section we show empirically the practical efficiency of CLIP and its relaxation. We run two
sets of experiments to compare CLIP w.r.t. state-of-the-art methods in supervised learning settings: i)
on 5 real-world graph classification datasets and ii) on 4 synthetic datasets to distinguish structural
graph properties and isomorphism. Both experiments follow the same experimental protocol as
described in[Xu et al.|(2019): 10-fold cross validation with grid search hyper-parameter optimization.
More details on the experimental setup are provided in Appendix[E]

6.1 CLASSICAL BENCHMARK DATASETS

We performed experiments on five benchmark datasets extracted from standard social networks
(IMDBb and IMDBm) and bio-informatics databases (MUTAG, PROTEINS and PTC). All dataset
characteristics (e.g. size, classes), as well as the experimental setup, are available in Appendix |[E]
Following standard practices for graph classification on these datasets, we use one-hot encodings
of node degrees as node attributes for IMDBb and IMDBm (Xu et al.|/2019), and perform single-
label multi-class classification on all datasets. We compared CLIP with six state-of-the-art baseline
algorithms: 1) WL: Weisfeiler-Lehman subtree kernel (Shervashidze et al.|[2011), 2) AWL: Anony-
mous Walk Embeddings (Ivanov and Burnaev| (2018), 3) DCNN: Diffusion-convolutional neural
networks (Atwood and Towsley}|2016), 4) PS: PATCHY-SAN 2016), 5) DGCNN:
Deep Graph CNN (Zhang et al.||2018) and 6) GIN: Graph Isomorphism Network (Xu et al.|[2019).
WL and AWL are representative of unsupervised methods coupled with an SVM classifier, while
DCNN, PS, DGCNN and GIN are four deep learning architectures. As the same experimental

protocol as that of[Xu et al.|(2019) was used, we present their reported results on Table[I]

As Table|1]shows, CLIP can achieve state-of-the-art performance on the five benchmark datasets.
Moreover, CLIP is consistent across all datasets, while all other competitors have at least one weak
performance. This is a good indicator of the robustness of the method to multiple classification tasks
and dataset types. Finally, the addition of colors does not improve the accuracy for these graph
classification tasks, except on the MUTAG dataset. This may come from the small dataset sizes
(leading to high variances) or an inherent difficulty of these classification tasks, and contrasts with
the clear improvements of the method for property testing (see Section|6 More details on the
performance of CLIP w.r.t. the number of colors k are available in Appendix|E]

Remark 2. In three out of five datasets, none of the recent state-of-the-art algorithms have statistically
significantly better results than older methods (e.g. WL). We argue that, considering the high variances

of all classification algorithms on classical graph datasets, graph property testing may be better suited
to measure the expressiveness of graph representation learning algorithms in practice.