2. Web Information Retrieval

 

Extended Models All previously described DFR models assume that the
query terms occur in a document independently of one another. To relax this
assumption, Peng et al. (2007b) introduced the pBiL DFR model to exploit
higher-order term dependence for ranking documents. Similarly to the MRF
model of Metzler & Croft (2005), described in Section 2.2.1.2, pBiL can model
different modes of term dependence, such as sequential and full dependence. As
Peng et al. (2007b) have shown, full dependence generally outperforms sequential
dependence, and is hence the mode used in our experiments. Assuming a full

dependence mode, the pBiL weighting scheme can be defined as:

BiL
wea = A Ua

1

——|( — log, (ly -1)! + log, tf, !

+e > theet:),a +1 ( 82 ( : ) +1082 Kestiya
At + logs (la-1 — thitt,),a)!

— tet,),alogo(1/(la —1))
— (la-1 = tfeg,),a) 1089((la -2)/ (la -1))), (2.32)

where the parameters a, and ay control the linear interpolation between the
unigram and full dependence weights, respectively. The unigram weight, wa,
can be computed using any of the aforementioned DFR models, such as PL2
(Equation (2.29)) or DPH (Equation (2.31)). The term dependence weight com-
bines the binomial randomness model with the Laplace model of information gain
to measure the informativeness of occurrences of pairs (t,t;) of query terms in
each document d. The resulting factorials in Equation (2.32) can be efficiently
computed using Lanczos’ approximation of the Gamma function (Lanczos, 1964).

Different from other probability distributions, such as the Poisson and hyper-
geometric distributions used by PL2 and DPH, respectively, the binomial distri-
bution does not consider the total frequency of each pair (t,t;) in a corpus, which
would be computationally expensive to estimate given the combinatorial number
of possible pairs. Instead, the informativeness of the pair in the document d is
solely dependent on the frequency tfy,,)q of the pair in the document and on
the length |, of the document. As a result, pBiL is also an efficient approach for

exploiting term dependence (Peng et al., 2007b; Macdonald & Ounis, 2010).

35