7. Document Coverage

 

7.2.2.2 Classification Labels

In order to determine the ground-truth intent of each sub-query, we investigate
two alternative labelling strategies. The first one, denoted JUDG, relies on a
manual classification performed by TREC assessors for the sub-topics underlying
a query, as discussed in Section 3.4.1. Nevertheless, the differences between these
sub-queries may go beyond their apparent characteristics. For instance, sub-
queries with the same judged intent could still benefit from leveraging different
ranking models (Craswell & Hawking, 2004). Additionally, judging the intent of
different sub-queries may be costly for large training datasets.

To overcome these limitations, we propose a second labelling strategy, denoted
PERF, aimed to automatically label training sub-queries. In particular, given
a training query qg with sub-queries S,, |S,| = k, and a set of target intents
TZ, we devise an oracle selection mechanism. According to a target evaluation
metric, such a mechanism always chooses the most effective out of the |Z|* possible
selections of the available models to be leveraged by a reference diversification
approach for the k sub-queries underlying q. In our investigation in Section 7.3, we
use ERR-IA@20 (Equation (3.28)) as the target evaluation metric, and xQuAD
as the reference diversification approach. Although estimating this oracle may
be infeasible for large values of k, it can be easily estimated for most practical
settings. For instance, the maximum number of sub-topics per query in the
TREC 2009, 2010, and 2011 Web tracks is k = 8. Moreover, if many more sub-
queries were available for a particular query, less plausible ones could be discarded
without much loss. Indeed, this is precisely what leading web search engines
do when displaying only the top suggestions for a user’s query, as discussed in
Chapter 6. To avoid training xQuAD’s diversification trade-off for evaluating
each selection of intents, we instantiate xQuAD with a fixed A = 1, which equates
to the formulation of [A-Select (Equation (3.23)), as discussed in Section 4.4.

Finally, it is worth noting that the entire labelling process is conducted offline.

7.2.2.3 Classification Features

In order to enable our investigation in Section 7.3, we restrict the space of target

intents to navigational and informational ones, since the TREC test collections

154