10. Conclusions and Future Work

 

10.1 Summary of Contributions

In the following, we summarise the main contributions of this thesis.

A taxonomy of diversification approaches In Chapter 3, we proposed a
taxonomy of existing search result diversification approaches, according to two
orthogonal dimensions: aspect representation and diversification strategy. The
first dimension determines how the multiple information needs underlying a query
are represented as query aspects, whereas the second dimension determines how
a diversification approach leverages the represented aspects in order to diversify
the retrieved documents. In Section 3.3, we described the most prominent diver-
sification approaches in the literature under this unified taxonomy, in order to

enable their systematic comparison across the two considered dimensions.

A probabilistic diversification framework In Chapter 4, we introduced
xQuAD, a novel framework for search result diversification. As discussed in
Section 4.1, different from implicit approaches in the literature, xQuAD adopts
an explicit aspect representation. In turn, different from most other explicit
approaches, xQuAD’s user-centric aspect representation directly represents the
multiple possible information needs underlying a query, in the form of sub-queries
associated with the initial query. Finally, xQuAD’s ranking objective is formally
defined in probabilistic terms, as demonstrated in Section 4.2. Such a theo-
retically sound formulation is also general, as it naturally encompasses effective

features of previous approaches, as discussed in Section 4.4.

A thorough validation of the proposed framework In Chapter 5, we thor-
oughly validated the xQuAD framework in contrast to effective representatives
of the multiple families of diversification approaches in the literature. In addi-
tion to validating the framework as a whole in Section 5.2.2.1, we also validated
its key pillars. In particular, Section 5.2.2.2 validated xQuAD’s hybrid diversi-
fication strategy, promoting both coverage and novelty in the ranking. In turn,
Section 5.2.2.3 validated xQuAD’s user-driven aspect representation in contrast

to representations deployed by other approaches in the literature.

209