9. Diversification Trade-Off

 

ument features are computed based on five different ranking mechanisms (denoted
“m’ in the “variants” column of Table 9.1), namely, BM25 (Equation (2.13)),
DPH (Equation (2.31)), and the APIs of the Bing, Google, and Yahoo! web
search engines. For the latter three mechanisms, URLs not present in our target
test collection are discarded. In addition, each of these features is computed at
ten distinct rank cutoffs (denoted “c”): 1, 2, 3, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 500, and 1000.
For entity-oriented features, up to four types (denoted “t”) are considered: per-
sons, organisations, products, and locations. Lastly, distributional features, such
as the number of documents per domain or the pairwise distance between any
two retrieved documents, are summarised using up to three summary statistics
(denoted “s”): mean, standard deviation, and maximum. The devised features
are organised into five groups, according to the tasks that motivated each feature:
query concept identification (QCI), query intent detection (QID), query log min-
ing (QLM), query performance prediction (QPP), and query topic classification

(QTC). In the following, we describe each of these groups.

Query Concept Identification (QCI) A first sign of ambiguity is present at
the word level (Sanderson, 2008). For instance, a query might contain multiple
named entities, possibly representing a complex information need with multiple
intents, as discussed in Section 7.2.2.3. Alternatively, a single query term can have
multiple meanings according to a particular source, such as a dictionary or an
encyclopedia. To capture these intuitions, we quantify the occurrence of named
entities in the query, as well as of Wikipedia disambiguation pages in the ranking
produced for this query. In addition, we further quantify the ambiguity of a query
by detecting the presence of acronyms. To this end, instead of deploying sophis-
ticated natural language processing techniques, we simply compute the number

of interpretations returned by all-acronyms.com for single-term queries.!

Query Intent Detection (QID) Navigational queries are usually less am-
biguous than informational ones (Welch et al., 2011), which suggests that useful
query intent detection features might also be useful for predicting query ambi-

guity (Kang & Kim, 2003). With this in mind, we leverage several query intent

1We assume that acronyms in multi-term queries are disambiguated by the additional terms.

196