8. Document Novelty

 

tween relevance (i.e., f,(q,d)) and redundancy (i.e., maxa, fo(d, dj), the opposite
of novelty) is achieved through an appropriate setting of A, as will be described in
Section 8.3.1.3. In our experiments, f,(q,d) is estimated by a standard retrieval
model. In order to estimate f,(d,d;), we compute the cosine between explicit
representations of d and d, over the set of aspects A.

Analogously to MMR, MVA (Equation (3.11)) instantiates the objective func-
tion f(g,d,D,) in Algorithm 3.1 by trading off relevance and redundancy. How-
ever, instead of computing the similarity between documents, MVA estimates the
redundancy of a document based on how its relevance scores correlate to those
of the other documents. Accordingly, we devise xMVA (Explicit Mean-Variance
Analysis) to estimate these correlations based on how well the documents sat-
isfy the explicitly represented query aspects. The objective function of xMVA is

defined according to the following equation:

feuva(@ 4, Dy) = ba — bw. 07 — 2bo4 > Wj Fa; Pad; (8.3)

dj€Dq

where jig and 04 are the mean and variance of the relevance estimates associated
to document d, respectively, while the summation component estimates the re-
dundancy of this document given the documents in D,. In particular, documents
are compared in terms of their correlation paa,;. A balance between relevance,
variance, and redundancy is achieved through the parameter b. Following Wang
& Zhu (2009), ua is estimated by a standard retrieval model, with relevance scores
normalised to yield a probability distribution, while oq is set as a constant for
all documents. In our experiments, both o and 6 are set through training, as
will be described in Section 8.3.1.3. Finally, pa, is estimated as the Pearson’s

correlation between explicit representations of d and dj over the aspects A.

8.2.2 Explicit Coverage-based Diversification

Besides making coverage and novelty directly comparable by introducing ex-
plicit novelty-based diversification approaches (i.e., x MMR and xMVA), we want
to be able to assess the effectiveness of novelty when combined with coverage.

To this end, we deconstruct two hybrid diversification approaches, namely, [A-

172