8. Document Novelty

 

8.2 Bridging the Gap

Although having the same goal of producing a diverse ranking, coverage and
novelty-based approaches pursue this goal in rather distinct manners. In partic-
ular, purely coverage-based approaches ignore the set of already selected docu-
ments when scoring a given document. In turn, purely novelty-based approaches
ignore the possible information needs underlying a query when comparing the con-
tents of the retrieved documents. In practice, the distinct aspect representations
leveraged by the existing approaches renders coverage and novelty not directly
comparable. In this section, we describe our methodology to bridge the gap be-
tween these approaches and enable their direct comparison. Besides evaluating
novelty in contrast to and in combination with coverage, our goal is to isolate
these strategies from their underlying aspect representation, so as to provide a
controlled setting for our investigation. To this end, in Section 8.2.1, we propose
adaptations of two implicit novelty-based diversification approaches to leverage
explicit aspect representations. Additionally, in Section 8.2.2, we deconstruct two

explicit hybrid approaches to deploy a coverage-based strategy only.

8.2.1 Explicit Novelty-based Diversification

Existing novelty-based diversification approaches rely on an implicit aspect rep-
resentation to estimate the diversity of a document with respect to the other
retrieved documents (e.g., Carbonell & Goldstein, 1998; Zhai et al., 2003; Wang
& Zhu, 2009). As a result, these approaches compare documents purely on the
basis of their content, rather than based on how these documents satisfy the pos-
sible information needs underlying the query. Moreover, the resulting document
representation (e.g., in the term-frequency space of a given corpus) is usually
high-dimensional, which negatively impacts both the effectiveness and the effi-
ciency of these approaches (Witten & Frank, 2005, Section 7.1). To counter these
limitations and—more importantly for the investigation in this chapter—to en-
able a direct comparison of existing diversification approaches across both the
aspect representation and the diversification strategy dimensions, we propose to
leverage explicit aspect representations for estimating novelty. Besides providing

a more expressive account of the relationship between documents and the aspects

170