2. Web Information Retrieval

 

2.2.3 Machine-learned Ranking

The previous sections have introduced several approaches for ranking documents
in response to a query. Regardless of these approaches’ relative effectiveness
when compared to one another, it is extremely unlikely that any single one of
them will be effective in all search scenarios (Zhai, 2011). This is particularly
true for web search, given the massive size and heterogeneity of the Web and the
increasingly complex information needs of web search users (Liu, 2009). On the
other hand, each of these approaches can potentially capture a different dimension
of the relevance of a document for the user’s query. As a result, combining
these approaches as multiple features of a unified ranking function emerges as a
promising direction for effectively searching the Web (Fuhr, 1989). The automatic
construction of such functions is the goal of a branch of machine learning denoted
learning to rank, which is the focus of this section. In particular, Section 2.2.3.1
introduces the general framework of learning to rank, whereas Section 2.2.3.2
describes the three main families of approaches that adhere to this framework,

including the approaches that will be used in the experiments in this thesis.

2.2.3.1 Discriminative Learning Framework

A learning to rank process can be specified within the general framework of
discriminative learning (Liu, 2009). In particular, the ultimate goal of learning

to rank is to automatically construct a ranking function:
firn (G2) = hi > y, (2.47)

where X and Y represent the input and output space of learning, respectively.
The input space X comprises learning instances, typically represented as feature
vectors x = ®(q,d), where ® is a feature extractor. Each dimension $(q, d) of
the feature vector could correspond, for instance, to one of the various ranking
functions described in the previous sections. The output space Y defines the target
of the learning task, which could be either a continuous or a discrete distribution
over the learning instances, or simply an overall ordering of these instances. The

class of functions h that map from the input to the output space is denoted the

42