3. Search Result Diversification

 

To this end, they proposed to condition the expected reward Ban, of each docu-
ment d at time 7 on the documents D, selected ahead of d. This can be formalised

into the following objective function, denoted ranked context bandits (RCB):

1 ifd=MAB,(R,, iS, ds

Jace (4 d, Dy) = (3.22)

0 otherwise,

where, similarly to Equation (3.19), the instance MAB;(R,, Sip.) selects a doc-
ument d* € R, for the j-th ranking position, with j = |D,|+1, but instead using
the conditional reward po jp, at time 7, by correlating the clicks on d* to those ob-
served for the documents d; € D,. To reduce the number of required correlation
computations, they modelled the reward function 4. as a Lipschitz-continuous
function in the metric space induced by the documents in R, (Searcdid, 2006),
which dramatically improved the efficiency of the proposed approach.

Agrawal et al. (2009) sought to diversify a document ranking in light of a tax-
onomy 7 of query intents, represented as different categories from the Open Di-
rectory Project (ODP).!° Given the classification of both queries and documents
in light of this taxonomy, they proposed an intent-aware selection (IA-Select)

mechanism, instantiating the objective function in Algorithm 3.1 as:

finsetect(% 4; Pq) = > Kela, Pa) Kala.) (3.23)
ceéT

where, for each category c € T, f(d|q,c) denotes the extent to which the document

d covers c, while f(c

 

q, D,) denotes the marginal utility of c given the query g and
the documents already in D,. Intuitively, an already well covered category is
deemed less useful, which contributes to the promotion of novel documents.
The search result diversification framework introduced in this thesis also falls
into the family of hybrid approaches. In Chapter 4, we will discuss how particular
choices for explicitly representing the query aspects and for estimating the diver-
sity of the retrieved documents with respect to each aspect lead to a principled,
effective, and flexible solution to the diversification problem. Before that, in the

remainder of this chapter, we will introduce approaches for diversity evaluation.

Mhttp://www.dmoz.org/

73