3. Search Result Diversification

 

3.3. Related Approaches

Most diversification approaches in the literature differ by how they implement the
objective function f(g, d,D,) in Algorithm 3.1. In this thesis, we propose to organ-
ise these approaches according to two complementary dimensions, as described in
Table 3.1: aspect representation and diversification strategy (Santos et al., 2010e,
2012b). An aspect representation determines how the information needs underly-
ing a query are represented as multiple aspects of this query.°” In particular, an
implicit representation relies on features intrinsic to each document in order to
model different aspects, such as the terms contained in the document (Carbonell
& Goldstein, 1998), or those derived from different language models (Zhai et al.,
2003), topic models (Carterette & Chandar, 2009), or clusters (He et al., 2011)
built from the initial ranking. In turn, an explicit representation seeks to directly
approximate the possible information needs underlying a query, by relying on fea-
tures derived from the query itself, such as its associated clicks (Radlinski et al.,
2008a), reformulations (Santos et al., 2010a), or categories (Agrawal et al., 2009).
Given a particular aspect representation, a diversification strategy determines
how to achieve the goal of satisfying the different query aspects. Coverage-based
approaches achieve this goal by directly estimating how well each document covers
each aspect of the query, regardless of the other retrieved documents. Depending
on the underlying aspect representation, coverage can be estimated in terms of
classification confidence (Agrawal et al., 2009), topicality (Carterette & Chan-
dar, 2009), and relevance (Santos et al., 2010a,e). In contrast, novelty-based
approaches directly compare the retrieved documents to one another, regardless
of their covered aspects, in order to promote novel information. For instance, doc-
uments can be compared in terms of content dissimilarity (Carbonell & Goldstein,
1998), divergence (Zhai et al., 2003), or relevance score correlation (Rafiei et al.,
2010; Wang & Zhu, 2009). Finally, the advantages of both coverage and novelty
can be combined into a hybrid diversification strategy (Santos et al., 2012b).
~~ Unless otherwise noted, we will refer to query interpretations and aspects indistinctly.
"While both queries and aspects are representations of information needs, we find the fol-
lowing distinction helpful: a query is a potentially ambiguous representation of an information

need in the classical “single-need” view of ranking, whereas an aspect is an unambiguous rep-
resentation of one need when multiple needs are considered, as discussed in Section 3.2.1.

63