6. Sub-Query Generation

 

located in the log. To tackle this data sparsity problem, Broccolo et al. (2012)
proposed to represent queries in a query log as virtual documents. This bag-
of-words representation comprises not only the words in the query itself, but
also those present in other queries with a common session in the log. Such a
representation combats data sparsity, since even previously unseen queries (i.e.,
queries without an exact match in the query log) will likely have at least one of
heir constituent words present in the log, which in turn may occur frequently
in the virtual document representation of a relevant suggestion. Additionally,
this representation enables the suggestion problem to be efficiently tackled as a
standard search over an inverted index, with the potential to scale to extremely
arge query logs (Dean, 2009). On the other hand, this representation lacks a
more fine-grained treatment of the multiple evidence available for ranking. In
articular, it does not distinguish between words from different sources.

In order to address this issue and to produce an effective sample of candidate
suggestions for learning to rank, we improve upon the bag-of-words representa-
ion proposed by Broccolo et al. (2012) by considering each available source of

evidence as a separate field in a structured virtual document.! As a result, words

 

that appear in a query suggestion can be weighted differently from those that
appear in related queries with a common session. Moreover, we integrate an ad-
ditional source of evidence as a third field in our structured virtual document
representation. In particular, for each candidate suggestion, we also store words
from queries with at least one common click in the query log. As an illustrative
example, Figure 6.1 shows an excerpt of the structured virtual document repre-
senting “metallica” as a candidate suggestion, highlighting this query itself (Q),
co-session queries (S), and queries with a common click (C) as separate fields.
Also note the “count” attribute for each entry (E) in Figure 6.1, which denotes
the frequency with which this entry co-occurs with “metallica” in the entire query
log (e.g., the queries “metallica” and “james hetfield” have 60 common clicks).
During indexing, the term frequency ¢f,,, of each term ¢ in a suggestion s is com-
puted as the sum of the “count” values across all entries of s where t occurs.

TAn analogy to the document ranking problem can be made in which field-based models,

such as BM25F (Zaragoza et al., 2004), leverage evidence from fields such as the title, body,
URL, or the anchor text of incoming hyperlinks in order to score a document.

125