5. Framework Validation

 

diversification baselines in terms of the number of affected queries. In particular,
MMR improves almost as many queries as it hurts on top of DPH, and even hurts
more queries than it improves on top of the stronger LambdaMART baseline. In
contrast, PC performs more consistently, always improving more queries than it
hurts, on top of both DPH and LambdaMART. Nonetheless, it has the lowest im-
pact among all considered diversification approaches, showing the highest number
of unaffected queries. [A-Select, on the other hand, shows an unstable behaviour,
consistently hurting more queries than it improves. The reasons for such an in-
stability will be further discussed in Sections 5.2.2.2 and 5.2.2.3. Lastly, xQuAD
shows the highest number of improved queries and the second lowest number of
hurt queries, behind only PC. These results are consistent for both ERR-IA@20
and a-nDCG@20, and on top of both DPH and LambdaMART.

Overall, the magnitude and consistency of the results in Table 5.6 attest the
effectiveness of xQuAD and answer research question Q1, regarding the perfor-
mance of the framework in light of the current state-of-the-art in search result di-
versification. In particular, these results validate our proposed framework, show-
ing that it compares favourably to effective novelty-based, coverage-based, and
hybrid diversification approaches from the literature. In the remainder of this
section, we analyse the reasons for such an improved effectiveness in terms of the

aspect representation and the diversification strategy deployed by xQuAD.

5.2.2.2 Diversification Strategy

As discussed in Section 3.3, the various diversification approaches in the liter-
ature differ essentially according to two dimensions: aspect representation and
diversification strategy. While the aspect representation defines the underlying
view of the retrieved documents in light of multiple query aspects, the diversifica-
tion strategy defines how these documents should be ranked given the considered
aspect representation. In Section 5.2.2.1, we evaluated the xQuAD framework
in contrast to three representative diversification approaches from the literature,
namely, MMR, PC, and [A-Select. Although this investigation served the pur-
pose of validating xQuAD in light of the current state-of-the-art, it is unclear

where the observed superior performance of the framework comes from, mostly

12