3. Search Result Diversification

 

Radlinski & Dumais (2006) proposed to diversify the documents retrieved for
a query according to these documents’ coverage of multiple reformulations of the
query, mined from a query log. In particular, given a query q, they selected the k
queries most likely to follow g across multiple sessions in a query log as a set S, of
query reformulations. In order to select the 7 most diverse documents from the
ranking R,, they enforced a proportional coverage of the identified reformulations.
According to this proportional coverage (PC) policy, each reformulation s € S,
could be represented by at most 7/k documents, which essentially filtered out

documents covering already well covered reformulations, according to:

fad) ifaseS,|de ReA|RsAD,| < 7/k,
foo(q. 4, Da) = | \ (3.17)
0 otherwise,

where R, is the set of documents that match the reformulation s. Despite ensur-
ing a proportional coverage of different reformulations, the selected documents
are still ranked by their estimated relevance to the initial query, f(q, d).

In a similar vein, Capannini et al. (2011) proposed to mine query specialisa-
tions (i.e., queries with a more specific representation of the user’s information
need compared to the initial query (Boldi et al., 2009b)) from a query log in
order to guide the diversification process. In particular, they selected the 7 most
diverse documents from FR, according to each document’s weighted proportional
coverage (WPC) of the identified specialisations s € S,. More precisely, their

approach can be formalised into the following objective function:

. fig,d) ifds Ee S,|de R,A|RsODy| < p(siq)7,
fwee(@ 4, Da) = ‘ ‘ (3.18)
0 otherwise,

where p(s|q)7 is the proportion of the final ranking dedicated to documents
matching each specialisation s € S,, given each specialisation’s likelihood p(s|q).
For documents matching a not well represented specialisation s, f(q,d) denotes
each document’s utility, such that f(q,d) « Y.es, P(s|@) Caer. Wee where
Rs is a ranking produced for each specialisation s and f(d,d;) measures the sim-

ilarity between d and each document d; € R,;, ranked at position r(d;, Rs).

70