2. Web Information Retrieval

 

Non-Parametric Models Although provably effective, PL2 and several other
models derived from the DFR framework require tuning the parameter y in Equa-
ion (2.30) (Amati, 2003). Parameter tuning also plays an important role for term
requency normalisation in probabilistic relevance models and for smoothing in
anguage models, as discussed in Sections 2.2.1.1 and 2.2.1.2, respectively. To
alleviate the need for extensive tuning while attaining an effective retrieval per-
ormance for corpora and queries with different characteristics, Amati (2006)
introduced a series of non-parametric DFR models. Such models deploy a hyper-
geometric distribution (Feller, 1968) as the basic randomness model. Similarly

o the binomial distribution (or its previously discussed Poisson approximation),

 

he hypergeometric distribution expresses the probability p,(t|C) of observing
tf, occurrences of a term ¢ in a corpus C. Unlike the binomial, the hypergeo-
metric distribution assumes that samples are drawn without replacement, i-e., in
a non-independent fashion. As a practical consequence, this randomness model
naturally incorporates an inherent non-parametric term frequency normalisation
mechanism, hence precluding any need for further parameter tuning.

Of the family of non-parametric DFR models, DPH (Amati et al., 2007) has
been shown to perform effectively across a variety of web search tasks (McCreadie
et al., 2009; Santos et al., 2010d; McCreadie et al., 2011). Moreover, as it requires
no parameter tuning, it is also efficient from a deployment perspective. Besides
using a hypergeometric randomness model, DPH estimates the information gain
of observing a term inspired by the notion of informative content of a theory in-
troduced by Popper (1934) and extensively studied by Hintikka & Suppes (1970).

The weighting scheme of DPH is formulated as:

tha)? 5
tha (d _ ua) In tf
apps = Eh "Es Ig (1 mel +0.510 Gz (1 - a4)),
td Gigi So fia i the S2 T Hf a li

(2.31)

Once again, as normalisation is inherent in the model, DPH provides an effec-
tive and efficient alternative to other models. For these reasons, it will be used
extensively in the experimental part of this thesis, both as a baseline ranking on

its own as well as a strong basis for building additional baseline rankings.

34