2. Web Information Retrieval

 

as the probability of that document being visited by the random walker. The

PageRank (PR) of a document d in a graph with n documents is given by:

pa (qd) = +70 fir(asds) (2.45)

%, ar

where Ra d) is the PageRank of d at the i-th iteration, with f (q,d) = (1/n)
for all d, Ba is the set of documents linking to d, fop(q,dj;) is the outdegree
of d; € By, given by Equation (2.44), and 7 is a damping factor, which can
be interpreted as the probability that a random walker will stop following the
chain of hyperlinks and “jump” to a randomly selected document. The algorithm
iterates until the computed PageRank scores stabilise within a given threshold or
until a predefined number of iterations is performed (Brin & Page, 1998).

An alternative, rich source of off-document ranking evidence is based on the
quality of a document as perceived by web search users rather than other web
authors. In particular, a web search engine can record in a query log a variety of
signals describing the interaction of search users during their search tasks. One
class of such signals is click evidence. While not all searches lead to clicks—
for both positive and negative reasons (Li et al., 2009; Stamou & Efthimiadis,
2010)—a click on a document ranked in response to a query can be seen as an
implicit judgement of the relevance of this document, of the non-relevance of the
documents ranked ahead of it that were skipped or, more generally, of the user’s
preference for the clicked document over the skipped ones (Joachims, 2002).

A simple query-independent feature can also be derived by leveraging click
evidence. In particular, given the sets of documents displayed (R,,) and clicked
(Ky,) for each query q; in a query log L, the click likelihood (CL) of a document
d models the probability that d will receive a click regardless of any particular

query (Richardson et al., 2007), according to:

acl 1K, (4)

fouls d) = $y:

(2.46)

where the indicator functions 1,,,(d) and 1e,,(d) determine whether the docu-

ment d belongs to each of the aforementioned sets for each query q in the log.

41