4. The xQuAD Framework

 

The conditional independence assumption in Equation (4.4) has a subtle but
important implication: it turns the computation of novelty from a direct compari-
son between documents into an estimation of the marginal utility of any document
satisfying each sub-query. In other words, instead of comparing a document d
to all documents already selected in Dy, as implicit novelty-based diversification
approaches would do (see Section 3.3.1), we estimate the utility of any document
satisfying the sub-query s, as the probability that none of the already selected
documents in D, satisfy this sub-query. Although we achieve the same goal of
promoting novelty, we do so in a much more efficient way. In particular, our
approach does not require looking up all the terms contained in all documents
from the initial ranking R,, so as to enable their direct comparison. Instead, we
just need to update the novelty estimation of a given sub-query, based on the es-
timation of how much this sub-query is already covered by the documents in Dg.
In contrast to implicit approaches, this estimation only incurs a few additional
inverted file lookups for the documents matching each of the sub-query terms.

In order to derive p(D,|q, s) in Equation (4.4), we make a second conditional
independence assumption. In particular, we assume that the documents already
selected in Dj are independently relevant to the sub-query s. This assumption
seems reasonable, since novelty is estimated as the probability of the entire set
D, (as opposed to any particular document in D,) not satisfying s. Lastly, for
convenience, Equation (4.5) is derived into Equation (4.6), by replacing p(d;|q, s)
with its complementary probability, subtracted from 1, i.e., 1 — p(dj|q,s). It is

interesting to observe that this simple algebraic transformation emphasises the

 

similarity of the probabilities p(d|q,s) and p(d;|q, s), which must be estimated as
part of the computation of each document’s coverage and novelty, respectively.
The derivation of xQuAD’s relevance and diversity components in Equa-
tion (4.1) is further illustrated by the graphical models in Figures 4.3(a) and (b),
respectively. Finally, by replacing Equation (4.6) into (4.1), the final diversifica-

tion objective of xQuAD can be expressed according to:

fequan (4:4, Da) = (1 — A) p(dla)
+AS° p(sla) p(dla.s) [] -pldjlas)). (4.7)

seSq djEDg

91