3. Search Result Diversification

 

Yue & Joachims (2008) proposed a hybrid diversification approach within the
framework of supervised machine learning. As training data, they considered a
pair (Rg,,N;,) for each query gq, where Ry, and N,, denoted the initially ranked
documents and the manually labelled information needs possibly underlying q,
respectively. Since the actual needs N,, are unknown in a real scenario, these
were implicitly represented using the words covered by each document. In order
to learn a function f to identify a set D,, C R,, with maximum coverage of N;,,
they employed structural support vector machines (SVMs; Tsochantaridis et al.,
2005). In particular, their weighted word coverage (WWC) approach considered

linear functions f, parametrised by a weight vector w, according to:
Fwwe (4; d, Dy) = w' ®(Ry, Dy U {d}), (3.20)

where the feature extractor ®(R,,D, U {d}) measures the extent to which the
words in Ry are covered by each candidate selection D, U {d}.

A supervised learning approach similar to the one of Yue & Joachims (2008)
was introduced by Raman et al. (2012), but within an online learning setting.
In particular, at a given time 7, their approach presented the user with a diverse

ranking D,, produced by the following objective:
tov (@ d, Dy) = w, ®(Ry, Dg U {d}), (3.21)

where w; denotes the weight vector learned by a diversification perceptron (DP),
based upon the evidence accumulated up to time i, and ®(R,, D,U{d}) is defined
in terms of word coverage, similarly to Equation (3.20). To update the vector wi,
the feedback received from the user in the form of pairwise preferences is used
to produce an improved (in expectation) ranking Dy. In particular, the updated
vector is defined as Wi, = w; + ®(Ry, Dz) — B(Ry, Dy).

Hybrid approaches based on explicit aspect representations have also been
proposed. For instance, Slivkins et al. (2010) introduced a hybrid diversification
approach within the multi-armed bandits (MAB) framework. In particular, they
extended the click coverage maximisation approach of Radlinski et al. (2008a),

described in Section 3.3.2, to account for the context in which clicks are observed.

72