3. Search Result Diversification

 

Building upon the formalism of quantum mechanics (Dirac, 1930), Zuccon &
Azzopardi (2010) proposed the quantum probability ranking principle (QPRP).
In contrast to the classic PRP (Cooper, 1971; Robertson, 1977), introduced in
Section 2.2.1.1, the QPRP prescribes that not only the estimated relevance of each
document should be considered as a ranking criterion, but also how it interferes
with the estimated relevance of the other documents. In particular, in the quan-
tum formalism, interference refers to the effect of an observation on subsequent

observations. This notion was quantified into the following objective:

Jorre(4 4, Da) = p(Gala, d) + > Od,d; + (3.12)

dj€Dq

where p(G,|q, d) denotes the probability of observing the relevant set G,, given the
query gq and the document d, which corresponds to the classic formulation of the
PRP in Equation (2.6). The estimation of the interference gaa, between d and
each document dj € D, involves operations with complex numbers. In practice, it
can be approximated as oua, & —2,/p(Gila. D (Gala, G) Ald, d;), where f(d, d;)
can be any function measuring the similarity between the two documents.

Zhu et al. (2007) approached the diversification problem as an absorbing ran-
dom walk (ARW) with transition probabilities p,; = (1 — A) p(dj|q) + A p(djldi),
where p(d;|q) and p(d;|d;) denoted the estimated relevance of d; and its similarity
to d;, respectively, with the parameter \ balancing between the two scores. An
absorbing random walk is a Markov chain with reachable absorbing states 7, such
that p,; = 1 if? = j, and 0 otherwise (Kemeny & Snell, 1960). In their formu-
lation, each already selected document d; € D, was represented as an absorbing

state, in which case candidate documents were scored according to:

Jarw(4, d, Dy) = v(d, Dy); (3.13)

where J(d,D,) denotes the expected number of visits to document d before ab-
sorption by the states in Dj. While this computation would incur an inversion of
the underlying transition matrix at every iteration, in practice, such an inversion
can be computed only once and reused subsequently to update the portion of the

matrix corresponding to the states in R, \D, (Woodbury, 1950).

67