2. Web Information Retrieval

 

2.2.1.3 Divergence from Randomness

A different probabilistic approach to query-dependent ranking is based on the
notion of divergence from randomness (DFR; Amati, 2003). DFR models build
upon the intuition that the more the content of a document diverges from a
random distribution, the more informative the document is. Similarly to the
best-matching approaches discussed in Section 2.2.1.1, DFR models are inspired
by Harter’s 2-Poisson model (Harter, 1975a,b), which assumes that the informa-
tiveness of a term in a corpus can be inferred by analysing its distribution in
different subsets of the corpus. Nonetheless, different from best-matching and
other probabilistic relevance models, DFR models have no explicit account of
relevance. Instead, these models exploit the statistical distribution of terms in
documents, in which they resemble the language modelling approaches described
in Section 2.2.1.2. However, different from language models, DFR models are an
example of frequentist rather than Bayesian inference models (Amati, 2006).

The relationship between the informativeness of a term and its distribution in
a corpus of documents has been recognised early (Damerau, 1965; Bookstein &
Swanson, 1974; Harter, 1975a,b). As discussed in Section 2.2.1.1, non-informative
terms tend to be randomly distributed over the document corpus, whereas infor-
mative terms appear more densely in a few elite documents. In particular, the
frequency of a non-informative term can be modelled by a Poisson distribution
with a mean proportional to the average frequency of the term in the corpus. Un-
der this assumption, inferring the informativeness of a term reduces to measuring
the deviation of the term’s frequency distribution from a random distribution.
Harter’s 2-Poisson model and the family of best-matching models derived from
it perform this inference by parametrising the occurrence of informative terms as
a second Poisson distribution (Harter, 1975a,b). As discussed in Section 2.2.1.1,
estimating the parameter of this distribution for each query term is problematic,
since eliteness is a hidden variable (Robertson & Zaragoza, 2009).

To overcome this limitation, DFR models assume that the elite set of a term
is simply the set of documents that contain the term (Amati & van Rijsbergen,
2002). In particular, the basic hypothesis underlying DFR models is that “the

informative content of a term can be measured by examining how much the term

31