10. Conclusions and Future Work

 

variation is observed not only in terms of the aspects underlying a query in differ-
ent verticals, but also in terms of the likelihood of these different aspects. With
the prevalence of aggregated search interfaces in modern web search (Murdock &
Lalmas, 2008; Diaz et al., 2010), an open question faced by web search engines is
how to tackle query ambiguity across multiple search verticals.

In this vein, we have proposed an extension of xQuAD to tackle the aggregated
search result diversification problem (Santos et al., 2011a). Following the greedy
approach in Algorithm 3.1, given a query g and an initial ranking R,, comprising
search results from multiple verticals ) € © triggered by this query, and a set Dy C
R, with the search results selected in the previous iterations of the algorithm, we

defined the ranking objective of xQuAD%% as follows:

Jquanvon (4; 4, Dy) = Y> p(d|q) [(1 — dv) pl(dlg, 8) + Av r(d, Dyyola,)], (10.1)
veo

where p(#|q) is the probability of selecting the vertical 0 for the query qg, while
p(d\q,0) and p(d,Dgjolq, 0) are vertical-specific instantiations of xQuAD’s rele-
vance and diversity probabilities in Equation (4.1). Accordingly, A» is the vertical-
specific diversification trade-off, denoting the expected ambiguity of the query q
in the scope of the vertical ¥. Besides open questions regarding the estimation of
the various components that emerge from this extended formulation (i.e., vertical-
specific sub-query generation, coverage, and novelty), an interesting modelling
question also arises. In particular, the extended formulation in Equation (10.1)
takes a local approach, by diversifying the search results within each vertical,
and then aggregating the rankings produced from the various verticals. As a
result, redundancy is penalised only within each vertical, but not across different
verticals. In practice, we assume that similar search results of the same type
(e.g., two videos about the same event) may be redundant, but similar results
of different types (e.g., a video and a news story covering the same event) may
be actually complementary. Another plausible formulation could take a global
approach, namely, by aggregating the search results from multiple verticals first,
and only then performing a diversification. Given the lack of a shared test collec-
tion for aggregated search evaluation, the empirical validation of these proposed

complementary approaches is also left as an open direction for investigation.

218