3. Search Result Diversification

 

Song et al. (2009) analysed the ambiguity of web search queries through a
user study. In their study, five assessors manually classified 60 queries sampled
from the log of a commercial search engine from August 2006 as either ambigu-
ous, underspecified, or clear queries. While a high assessor agreement (90%) was
observed for judging whether a given query was ambiguous or not, distinguish-
ing between underspecified and clear queries turned out to be substantially more
difficult. Nonetheless, based on the demonstrated feasibility of the former case,
they proposed a binary classification approach to automatically identify ambigu-
ous queries. Based on the learned classification model, they estimated that 16%
of the queries in their entire query log sample were ambiguous.

Another log analysis of query ambiguity was performed by Clough et al.
(2009). In their analysis, a total of 14,909 unique queries that satisfied mini-
mum frequency criteria were selected from a one-month sample of the query log
of a commercial search engine from 2006. Of the sample queries, 18% had a high
click entropy, which quantified the spread of each query’s clicked documents. Such
queries were mostly informational, whereas queries with a low entropy were pre-
dominantly navigational (Broder, 2002). Analysing the subset of queries with an
exact match among Wikipedia disambiguation pages, they found no significant
correlation between click entropy and the number of suggested interpretations on
Wikipedia. However, they observed that queries with a dominant interpretation
on Wikipedia had a higher entropy. Such queries tended to be underspecified,
with clicks covering a range of aspects of the dominant interpretation. In particu-
lar, they found a significant correlation between the entropy of these queries and
the total length of the corresponding articles on Wikipedia, suggesting that they
indeed covered broad topics. Finally, considering both queries with high entropy
and those with at least one reformulation in the query log, they estimated that
from 9.5% to 16.2% of all queries in their sample were ambiguous.

The aforementioned studies characterised query ambiguity from different per-
spectives. In common, all studies reached the surprisingly consensual figure that
around 16% of all user queries are ambiguous, while many more can be under-
specified to some degree. In the next section, we will discuss how query ambiguity
can pose challenges to traditional ranking approaches, and how search result di-

versification can be deployed to address such challenges.

56