8. Document Novelty

 

8.1 Diversification Dimensions

The most prominent diversification approaches in the literature can be organ-
ised according to two orthogonal dimensions, as proposed in Section 3.3: aspect
representation and diversification strategy. The aspect representation determines
whether the possible information needs underlying a query are represented ex-
plicitly, based upon properties of the query itself (e.g., query reformulations or
categories), or implicitly, based upon properties of the retrieved documents (e.g.,
the terms comprised by each document). In turn, the diversification strategy
determines how a particular aspect representation is leveraged to diversify the
retrieved documents. In particular, novelty-based approaches achieve this goal
by comparing the retrieved documents to one another, in order to promote those
that carry new information. In contrast, coverage-based approaches directly esti-
mate how well each document covers the identified query aspects. Finally, hybrid
approaches combine the goals of coverage and novelty into a unified strategy.
Unfortunately, the prevalence of different aspect representations has precluded
a direct comparison between coverage and novelty. As a result, it remains unclear
whether the striking difference in performance commonly observed between cover-
age and novelty-based approaches is due to their underlying aspect representation
(explicit vs. implicit) or to their diversification strategy (coverage vs. novelty).
It is also unclear how much novelty actually contributes to the effectiveness of
hybrid approaches, while penalising their efficiency. Although intuitive, novelty
has yet to be shown effective for diversifying web search results. In particular,
existing evidence of the effectiveness of novelty as a diversification strategy is
based on either qualitative studies (Carbonell & Goldstein, 1998) or on curated
corpora, such as Wikipedia (Rafiei et al., 2010) or newswire (Wang & Zhu, 2009).
To allow a thorough investigation of the role of novelty for search result di-
versification, in the next section, we adapt two existing novelty-based approaches
to leverage explicit query aspect representations. Likewise, we produce coverage-
only versions of two approaches that deploy a hybrid of coverage and novelty,
including our xQuAD framework. By doing so, we bridge the gap between the
diversification approaches in the literature and enable their evaluation in terms

of the aspect representation and the diversification strategy dimensions.

169