7. Document Coverage

 

7.1 Intents in Web Search

Not all information needs have the same underlying intent. In particular, Broder
(2002) proposed a taxonomy of information needs in web search, categorising
their intent according to three classes: navigational, denoting a need to find a
specific document; informational, denoting a need for information about a topic,
which may be covered on one or more documents; and transactional, denoting a
need to perform a web-mediated activity. This taxonomy was later extended by
Rose & Levinson (2004), who devised a hierarchy of intents stemming from the
three broad classes proposed by Broder (2002). Nevertheless, Broder’s taxonomy
remains the most widely adopted in the literature (Calderon-Benavides, 2011).

Several ranking approaches have benefited from exploiting the intent under-
lying web search queries. Such intent-aware approaches can be categorised as
to whether they rely on the classification of queries into predefined intents. For
instance, query intent detection approaches classify a query with respect to a pre-
defined set of intents. A ranking model trained for the predicted intent is then
applied to rank documents for the query. In this vein, Kang & Kim (2003) showed
that queries of distinct intents can benefit from intent-aware ranking models. A
major shortcoming of this family of approaches, however, is the limited accuracy
of existing intent detection mechanisms (Craswell & Hawking, 2004).

Instead of classifying a query into a predefined target intent, an alternative is
to identify similar queries from a training set, and then apply a ranking model
appropriate for this set. This approach has an advantage over a classification of
queries based on a fixed set of intents, as queries of the same intent often benefit
from different ranking models (Craswell & Hawking, 2004). For example, Geng
et al. (2008) proposed an instance-based learning approach using k-nearest neigh-
bour (k-NN) classification (Aha et al., 1991) to improve web search effectiveness.
In their approach, a k-NN classifier was used to identify training queries simi-
lar to an unseen query. A ranking model was then learned using the identified
neighbouring queries and applied to the unseen query. A more general approach
was proposed by Peng et al. (2010). In their work, multiple ranking functions
were chosen from a pool of candidate functions, according to their retrieval per-

formance on training queries similar to an unseen query.

150