2. Web Information Retrieval

 

2.2.2. Query-independent Ranking

The previous section described query-dependent ranking approaches, which infer
he extent to which a document is about the topic of the user’s query. While
opicality is essential for inferring the relevance of a document (Boyce, 1982),
here may be too many documents with relatively similar topicality scores for
the same query. In addition, some queries may be better answered by sources
hat fulfil a specific quality criterion, such as authoritativeness, credibility, or
rustworthiness, particularly when the user is searching for a specific information
provider (Kraaij et al., 2002; Bendersky et al., 2011). To distinguish between
documents with similar topicality, and also to address queries that explicitly
seek for quality content, several query-independent ranking approaches have been
roposed in the literature. In this section, we describe two broad classes of such
approaches, which are used in the experimental part of this thesis. In particular,

Section 2.2.2.1 describes approaches that infer the a priori quality of a document

 

based upon evidence in the document itself, whereas Section 2.2.2.2 focuses on

approaches that infer quality from sources external to the document.

2.2.2.1 On-Document Evidence

A typical assumption underlying query-dependent ranking approaches is that all
documents in a corpus are equally relevant a priori (Kraaij et al., 2002). While
his assumption may hold when retrieving from curated corpora such as newswire
documents, it may be unrealistic in an environment such as the Web (Bendersky
et al., 2011). In particular, web documents are produced independently by au-
hors with various motives and backgrounds, leading to a vast heterogeneity in
content quality, ranging from high quality sources, such as online encyclopedias,
o adversarial content, such as spam (Castillo & Davison, 2011).

Kraaij et al. (2002) were among the first to analyse the usefulness of the a priori
evidence of the quality of documents for web search. To this end, they investigated
he effectiveness of several features for estimating the document prior p(d) in a

query likelihood model, as described in Section 2.2.1.2. Among these, URL-

 

ased features were shown to be particularly effective for identifying homepages,

a classical web search task (Broder, 2002). For instance, the URL type feature

36