8. Document Novelty

 

The diversification performance of xMMR, xQuAD%*, and xQuAD is shown in
Figure 8.1(a) for a range of relevance estimation performances. Relevance perfor-
maunice (the x axis) is measured by mean average precision (MAP@100). Diversi-
fication performance (the y axis) is measured by a-nDCG@100 with a = 1.0, so
as to penalise redundancy the most heavily. Since all approaches are applied to
diversify the top 100 documents, evaluation at rank cutoff 100 ensures that any
observed improvements are due to removing redundancy with respect to the as-
pects already covered, rather than to covering additional aspects in the ranking.
The performance of a standard DPH ranking is also included as a baseline.? From
the figure, we first observe that the diversification performance of all approaches
is highly correlated to their underlying relevance estimation performance. This is
somewhat expected, since by improving relevance, the chance of satisfying at least
one of the aspects of the query increases, as confirmed by the high correlation ob-
served for the DPH baseline itself (Pearson’s p = 0.898). As for the diversification
approaches, x MMR is almost indistinguishable from DPH across the query MAP
range. Likewise, xQuAD cannot be distinguished from xQuAD*. This further
shows that novelty is a generally weak diversification strategy, both on its own,
and when combined with coverage, corroborating the results in Section 8.3.2.

Figure 8.1(b) complements the results in Figure 8.1(a). In this second sce-
nario, instead of varying the relevance estimations for the query, we simulate
a range of diversity estimations. Once again, besides the diversification perfor-
mance of xMMR, xQuAD*, and xQuAD over the range of simulated diversity
estimations, we include DPH as an adhoc retrieval baseline. From Figure 8.1(b),
we observe that the performance of x MMR remains indistinguishable from the
performance of DPH, even with increasingly improved aspect relevance estima-
tions, further confirming the limitation of novelty as a diversification strategy.
In contrast, xQuAD* substantially improves as the underlying aspect relevance
estimations improve. This shows that, besides being more robust, coverage can
also benefit more from improved evidence of the association of documents to
query aspects. More surprisingly, coverage proves to be a more effective strat-
egy for promoting novelty (i.e., for reducing redundancy) than novelty itself, as

?Note that none of the diversification approaches attains a perfect MAP or a-nDCG, since
their performance is limited by the performance of DPH.

183