Fast and Space-Efficient Entity Linking in Queries

Roi Blanco Giuseppe Ottaviano Edgar Meij
Yahoo Labs ISTI-CNR Yahoo Labs
Barcelona, Spain Pisa, Italy Barcelona, Spain

roi@yahoo-inc.com

giuseppe.ottaviano@

emeij@yahoo-inc.com

isti.cnr.it

ABSTRACT

Entity linking deals with identifying entities from a knowledge
base in a given piece of text and has become a fundamental
building block for web search engines, enabling numerous
downstream improvements from better document ranking to
enhanced search results pages. A key problem in the context
of web search queries is that this process needs to run under
severe time constraints as it has to be performed before any
actual retrieval takes place, typically within milliseconds.

In this paper we propose a probabilistic model that lever-
ages user-generated information on the web to link queries
to entities in a knowledge base. There are three key ingredi-
ents that make the algorithm fast and space-efficient. First,
the linking process ignores any dependencies between the
different entity candidates, which allows for a O(k*) imple-
mentation in the number of query terms. Second, we leverage
hashing and compression techniques to reduce the memory
footprint. Finally, to equip the algorithm with contextual
knowledge without sacrificing speed, we factor the distance
between distributional semantics of the query words and
entities into the model.

We show that our solution significantly outperforms several
state-of-the-art baselines by more than 14% while being able
to process queries in sub-millisecond times—at least two
orders of magnitude faster than existing systems.

Categories and Subject Descriptors

H.3.1 [Information Storage and Retrieval]: Content Anal-
ysis and Indexing

General Terms

Experimentation, Measurement

Keywords
Entity Linking; Wikipedia; Queries; Web Search

Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions @acm.org.

WSDM’15, February 2-6, 2015, Shanghai, China.

Copyright is held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.

ACM 978-1-4503-3317-7/15/02 ...$15.00.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2684822.2685317.

   

RIGHTS LIN K4>

179

1. INTRODUCTION

Commercial web search engines are presenting increasingly
advanced and rich user experiences that include displays of
answers, facts, entities, and other structured results. Such web
search user experiences are centered around understanding
and displaying information pertinent to entities present in or
meant by the query, since users increasingly expect to find the
actual answers and/or entities that satisfy their information
need, rather than merely the documents that mention them.
One critical step in this process is understanding the entities
that are mentioned in queries and linking them to a reference
Knowledge Base (KB). Such linking has to be performed on
a very limited time and space budget as it needs to happen
before any actual search process commences.

Linking free text to entities—often referred to as entity
linking—typically comprises three steps: (i) identifying can-
didate mentions, i.e., which part(s) of the text to link, (ii)
identifying candidate entities for each mention, and (iii) dis-
ambiguating the candidate entities based on some notion of
context and coherence [14]. Recent research has made exten-
sive use of open KBs or entity repositories such as Freebase,
IMDB, Wikipedia, as well as private or proprietary ones [5].
Most linking methods from the literature, however, assume
that the input text is relatively clean and grammatically
correct and that it provides sufficient context [7] [11]. Queries,
on the other hand, are short, noisy, and full of shorthand and
other ungrammatical text, and provide very limited context
for the words they contain. Hence, it is not obvious that
automatic entity linking methods that have been shown to
work well on news articles or web pages perform equally well
on this domain. Moreover, the efficiency aspects of linking
systems are not a focal point in the literature. Entity link-
ing for web search queries poses some interesting technical
challenges due to the sheer volume of the data, its dynamic
nature, the creative language usage, and the required tradeoff
between speed and disambiguation quality. Entity linking
for queries has not received considerable attention in the
literature, except for type spotting for named entity recogni-
tion [13], linking queries to semantic web concepts [19], and
providing a full structured representation of the query [34].

In this paper we propose a new probabilistic model and
algorithm for entity linking in web search queries that ex-
tracts a large number of candidate aliases for entities from
click-through information and anchor text. In order to keep
these large amounts of data manageable, we compress all
candidates using state-of-the-art hashing and bit encoding
techniques. Our algorithm is able to swiftly detect the entities
in the query because we drop all the dependence assumptions