Query Answer

Correct Answer Type of Error

 

designer dogs types

clinton falls asleep

candidate killed in storm

france world cup 98 reaction

2005 presidential election in Egypt
kansas city hotels airport

Dog_type

FIFA_World_Cup
Elections_in_Egypt

Clinton_Falls_Township
Storm_(Marvel_Comics)

Sheraton_Kansas_City_Hotel

Crossbreed Parallel concept
Bill_Clinton Wrong segmentation
Storm Candidate too popular

Not enough context
Not enough context
Too much context

FIFA_World_Cup_1998
2005_Elections_in_Egypt
Kansas_City

 

Table 6: Different examples of mistakes made by the context aware system along with their types, top linked

entity displayed.

 

 

Query FEL answer FEL+Context

install roof insulation Insolation Building_insulation
inventor of gunpowder Gunpowder History_of_gunpowder

us political map Map Red_states_and_blue_states
dj jobs Jobs_(film) Disc_jockey

buy used car parts online Automobile Used_car

what is the longest running tv show Television The_Simpsons

 

Table 7: Example queries that were corrected from the base system FEL when the contextual vectors were
incorporated into the model, top linked entity displayed.

boost entity candidates that are more related to the query,
e.g., History_of_gunpowder versus Gunpowder.

5. CONCLUSIONS

In this paper we have described a probabilistic model for
entity linking on web search queries. This task already poses
numerous challenges by itself but a major limitation in the
context of web search is that we are heavily constrained from
a runtime perspective, imposing time and space requirements
whilst maintaining accuracy. Our method leverages informa-
tion from query logs and anchor texts to automatically obtain
a large number of aliases for the entities in a knowledge base
and uses a probabilistic model to rank entities in query seg-
ments. Our model uses dynamic programming to generate
the best entity segmentation and, in order to add information
about the query context into the ranking, we devise a novel
way of aggregating vectors that encode word distributional
semantics. This new contextual vector model significantly
outperforms various state-of-the-art baselines from the liter-
ature on a public test set comprised of 2.5K queries, while
being able to provide sub-millisecond response times—several
orders of magnitude faster than entity linking systems from
the literature.

Furthermore, all the data structures used by our system
are compressed using state-of-the-art hashing, quantization,
and integer encoding techniques. This yields a final data-pack
storing hundreds of millions of aliases for all 4.6M Wikipedia
entities using less than 2GB of storage. We also note that
the size of the word vector representations can be reduced
by an order of magnitude without any execution overhead.

For future work, we would like to test the scalability of
the system when considering hundreds of millions of entities
and billions of aliases. This might require to employ static
pruning algorithms to reduce the size of the compressed data
structures [4]. Additionally, we generated the contextual vec-
tors using Wikipedia but we could expand the input sources
to accommodate for other types of data, such as queries or
news, which could incorporate more interesting contextual

RIGHTS LIN K4>

187

relations that fall outside of encyclopedic knowledge (e.g.,
trends, gossip, etc.). Another interesting line of work could
involve incorporating session-level features into the entity
linking process in order to make use of a richer source of con-
textual information. Finally, we believe that our contextual
entity models are general enough to be of value in different
types of applications that make use of word aggregation
distributional similarities.

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank Sebastiano Vigna and
Hugues Bouchard for their kind help in implementing the sys-
tem described in the paper, and their support with uncount-
able useful suggestions. The second author was supported by
Midas EU Project (318786), eCloud EU Project (325091) and
by the Yahoo Faculty Research and Engagement Program.

References

1] E. Alfonseca, M. Pasca, and E. Robledo-Arnuncio.
Acquisition of instance attributes via labeled and
related instances. In Proceedings of the 33rd
International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and
Development in Information Retrieval, 2010.

R. Baeza-Yates, C. Hurtado, and M. Mendoza. Query
recommendation using query logs in search engines. In
Proceedings of the 2004 International Conference on
Current Trends in Database Technology, 2004.

J. Bergstra, O. Breuleux, F. Bastien, P. Lamblin,

R. Pascanu, G. Desjardins, J. Turian, D. Warde-Farley,
and Y. Bengio. Theano: a CPU and GPU math
expression compiler. In Proceedings of the Python for
Scientific Computing Conference (SciPy), June 2010.
Oral Presentation.

R. Blanco and A. Barreiro. Probabilistic static pruning
of inverted files. ACM Trans. Inf. Syst., 28(1):1:1-1:33,
Jan. 2010.

R. Blanco, B. B. Cambazoglu, P. Mika, and N. Torzec.
Entity recommendations in web search. In The

2]