2015 IEEE International Symposium on Multimedia

TRACE: Linguistic-based Approach for Automatic Lecture Video Segmentation
Leveraging Wikipedia Texts

Rajiv Ratn Shah
School of Computing
National University of Singapore
Singapore
rajiv@comp.nus.edu.sg

Anwar Dilawar Shaikh
Department of Computer Engineering
Delhi Technological University
Delhi, India
anwardshaikh@ gmail.com

Abstract—In multimedia-based e-learning systems, the ac-
cessibility and searchability of most lecture video content is
still insufficient due to the unscripted and spontaneous speech
of the speakers. Moreover, this problem becomes even more
challenging when the quality of such lecture videos is not
sufficiently high. To extract the structural knowledge of a
multi-topic lecture video and thus make it easily accessible
it is very desirable to divide each video into shorter clips by
performing an automatic topic-wise video segmentation. To this
end, this paper presents the TRACE system to automatically
perform such a segmentation based on a linguistic approach
using Wikipedia texts. TRACE has two main contributions:
(i) the extraction of a novel linguistic-based Wikipedia feature
to segment lecture videos efficiently, and (ii) the investigation
of the late fusion of video segmentation results derived from
state-of-the-art algorithms. Specifically for the late fusion, we
combine confidence scores produced by the models constructed
from visual, transcriptional, and Wikipedia features. According
to our experiments on lecture videos from VideoLectures.NET
and NPTEL', the proposed algorithm segments knowledge
structures more accurately compared to existing state-of-the-
art algorithms. The evaluation results are very encouraging
and thus confirm the effectiveness of TRACE.

Keywords-Lecture video segmentation; e-learning systems;
multimodal analysis; Wikipedia; late fusion; linguistic features

I. INTRODUCTION

A large volume of digital lecture videos has accumulated
on the web due to the ubiquitous availability of cameras and
affordable network infrastructures. However, a significant
number of old (but important) videos with low visual quality
from well known speakers are also commonly part of such
databases. Because a specific topic of interest is often
discussed in only a few minutes of a long video recording,
it is essential to perform an efficient and fast topic boundary

‘National Prog. on Technology Enhanced Learning: http://nptel.ac.in/

978-1-5090-0379-2/15 $31.00 © 2015 IEEE
DOT 10.1109/ISM.2015.18

217

Yi Yu
Digital Content and Media Sciences Research Division
National Institute of Informatics
Tokyo, Japan
yiyu@nii.ac.jp

Roger Zimmermann
School of Computing
National University of Singapore
and NUSRI, Suzhou, China
rogerz@comp.nus.edu.sg

detection that also works robustly with lower quality videos.
Moreover, such topic-wise segmentation of a lecture video
into smaller cohesive intervals is advantageous to enable an
easy search of the desired pieces of information. However,
an automatic segmentation, indexing, and content-based
retrieval of appropriate information from a large collection
of lecture videos is very challenging because: (i) SRT (sub-
title resource tracks) of lecture videos contain repetitions,
mistakes, and rephrasings, (ii) the low visual quality of such
videos may be challenging for topic boundary detection, and
(iii) the camera may in many parts of a video focus on the
speaker instead of the, e.g., whiteboard.

State-of-the-art methods for automatic lecture video seg-
mentation are based on the analysis of visual content, speech
signals, and transcripts/SRT. However, none of the prior ap-
proaches consistently yields the best segmentation results for
all lecture videos due to unclear topic boundaries, varying
video qualities, and the subjectiveness inherent in transcripts.
Since multimodal information augments multimedia based
applications and services [6], [8], we postulate that a crowd-
sourced knowledge base such as Wikipedia can be very
helpful in the automatic lecture video segmentation because
it provides several semantic contexts to analyze and segment
videos more accurately. Empirical results in Section IV con-
firm our intuition. Thus, segment boundaries computed from
SRT using state-of-the-art methods are further improved by
refining these results using Wikipedia features. Our proposed
TRACE system also works well for the detection of topic
boundaries when only Wikipedia texts and SRT of lecture
videos are available. Generally, the length of lecture videos
ranges from 30 minutes to 2 hours, and computing the
visual and audio features is a very time consuming process.
Since TRACE is based on a linguistic approach, it does not
require to compute such features from video content and

@® com suter
= PSoclety