Title: Exponential stability of switched stochastic delay systems with non-linear uncertainties

Abstract: This article considers the robust exponential stability of uncertain switched stochastic systems with time-delay. Both almost sure
(sample) stability and stability in mean square are investigated. Based on Lyapunov functional methods and linear matrix inequality techniques,
new criteria for exponential robust stability of switched stochastic delay systems with non-linear uncertainties are derived in terms of linear
matrix inequalities and average dwell-time conditions. Numerical examples are also given to illustrate the results.

 

(a) Present Keyphrases

Target: {stochastic systems; non-linear uncertainties; exponential stability; linear matrix inequality; average dwell-time}
CopyRNN: 1. linear matrix inequality, 2. switched stochastic systems, 3. robust stability, 4. exponential stability, 5. average dwell-time
TG-Net: 1. exponential stability, 2. switched stochastic systems, 3. average dwell-time, 4. non-linear uncertainties, 5. linear matrix inequality

 

(b) Absent Keyphrases
Target: {switched systems; time-delay system}

 

CopyRNN: 1. switched systems, 2. switched delay systems, 3. robust control, 4. uncertain systems, 5. switched stochastic stochastic systems
TG-Net: 1. almost sure stability, 2. switched systems, 3. time-delay systems, 4. mean square stability, 5. uncertain systems

 

 

Figure 4: A prediction example of CopyRNN and TG-Net. The top 5 predictions are compared and the correct predictions are

highlighted in bold.

>12%) title length ratio groups. In >12% group, the title
plays a more important role than in other groups, and conse-
quently our model benefits more by not only explicitly em-
phasizing the title information itself, but also utilizing it to
guide the encoding of information in the main body. As for
<3% group, the effect of such a short title is small on the
latter part of the context in CopyRNN because of the long
distance. However, our model explicitly employs the title
to guide the encoding of each context word regardless of
the distance, which utilizes the title information much more
sufficiently. Consequently, our model achieves much higher
improvement in this group. While we only display the re-
sults of present keyphrase prediction, the absent keyphrase
predicting task gets the similar results.

Ablation Study

We also perform an ablation study on Krapivin for bet-
ter understanding the contributions of the main parts of
our model. For a comprehensive comparison, we conduct
this study on both present keyphrase prediction and absent
keyphrase prediction.

As shown in Table [5] after we remove the title-guided
part and only reserve the sequence encoding for the context
(i.e., -title), both the present and absent keyphrase predic-
tion performance become obviously worse, indicating that
our title-guided context encoding is consistently critical for
both present and absent keyphrase generation tasks. We also
investigate the effect of removing the copy mechanism (i.e.,
-copy) from our TG-Net. From Table|5} we notice that the
scores decrease dramatically on both present and absent
keyphrase prediction, which demonstrates the effectiveness
of the copy mechanism in finding important parts of the con-
text.

 

Case Study

A keyphrase prediction example for a paper about the expo-
nential stability of uncertain switched stochastic delay sys-
tems is shown in Figure/4] To be fair, we also only compare
the RNN-based models (i.e., TG-Net and CopyRNN). For
present keyphrase, we find that a present keyphrase “non-

 

 

Present Absent

Model | FI@5 FI@10 | R@10 R@S50

TG-Net | 0.349 0.295 | 0.146 = 0.253
-title 0.334 «0.288 -| (0.142 (0.240
-copy | 0.306 0.281 0.127 0.216

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Table 5: Ablation study on Krapivin dataset.

linear uncertainties”, which is a title phrase, is correctly pre-
dicted by our TG-Net, while CopyRNN fails to do so. As for
absent keyphrase, we note that CopyRNN fails to predict the
absent keyphrase “time-delay systems”. But our TG-Net can
effectively utilize the title information “stochastic delay sys-
tems” to locate the important abstract information “stochas-
tic systems with time-delay” and then successfully generate
this absent keyphrase. These results exhibit that our model is
capable of capturing the title-related core information more
effectively and achieving better results in predicting present
and absent keyphrases.

Conclusion

In this paper, we propose a novel TG-Net for keyphrase gen-
eration task, which explicitly considers the leading role of
the title to the overall document main body. Instead of sim-
ply concatenating the title and the main body as the only
source input, our model explicitly treats the title as an ex-
tra query-like input to guide the encoding of the context.
The proposed TG-Net is able to sufficiently leverage the
highly summative information in the title to guide keyphrase
generation. The empirical experiment results on five popu-
lar real-world datasets exhibit the effectiveness of our model
for both present and absent keyphrase generation, especially
for a document with very low or very high title length ratio.
One interesting future direction is to explore more appropri-
ate evaluation metrics for the predicted keyphrases instead
of only considering the exact match with the human labeled
keyphrases as the current recall and F-measure do.