arXiv:2006.15646v1 [cs.LG] 28 Jun 2020

 

Characterizing the Expressive Power of Invariant and
Equivariant Graph Neural Networks

Waiss Azizian
ENS, PSL University, Paris, France
waiss.azizian@ens.fr

Marc Lelarge
INRIA & ENS, PSL University, Paris, France
marc.lelarge@ens.fr

Abstract

Various classes of Graph Neural Networks (GNN) have been proposed and shown
to be successful in a wide range of applications with graph structured data. In
this paper, we propose a theoretical framework able to compare the expressive
power of these GNN architectures. The current universality theorems only apply to
intractable classes of GNNs. Here, we prove the first approximation guarantees for
practical GNNs, paving the way for a better understanding of their generalization.
Our theoretical results are proved for invariant GNNs computing a graph embedding
(permutation of the nodes of the input graph does not affect the output) and
equivariant GNNs computing an embedding of the nodes (permutation of the input
permutes the output). We show that Folklore Graph Neural Networks (FGNN),
which are tensor based GNNs augmented with matrix multiplication are the most
expressive architectures proposed so far for a given tensor order. We illustrate our
results on the Quadratic Assignment Problem (a NP-Hard combinatorial problem)
by showing that FGNNs are able to learn how to solve the problem, leading to
much better average performances than existing algorithms (based on spectral,
SDP or other GNNs architectures). On a practical side, we also implement masked
tensors to handle batches of graphs of varying sizes.

1 Introduction

Graph Neural Networks (GNN) are designed to deal with graph structured data. Since a graph is
not changed by permutation of its nodes, GNNs should be either invariant if they return a result that
must not depend on the representation of the input (typically when building a graph embedding)
or equivariant if the output must be permuted when the input is permuted (typically when building
an embedding of the nodes). More fundamentally, incorporating symmetries in machine learning
is a fundamental problem as it allows to reduce the number of degree of freedom to be learned.
As an extreme example, consider the case of the linear regression where the task is to estimate a
linear model 321 + ---+ 8,2. If we know that the model is invariant to permutations of the input
(a1,...,2,), then there is only one parameter to estimate because linearity and invariance of the
model impose 8; = --- = Bn.

Learning on graphs. When the input of the learning task is a graph or a signal on the vertices of a
graph, this means there are natural symmetries to take into account. Namely, the task is invariant to
graph symmetries: two isomorphic graphs will produce the same output. As an example, a linear
regression on graphs would be a task where we try to estimate a linear function of the adjacency
matrix in R"*” of the graph. But this linear function should also be invariant to the permutation of

Preprint. Under review.