1802.05451v4 [stat.ML] 1 Nov 2018

arXiv

 

Mapping Images to Scene Graphs with
Permutation-Invariant Structured Prediction

 

Roei Herzig* Moshiko Raboh*
Tel Aviv University Tel Aviv University
roeiherzig@mail.tau.ac.il mosheraboh@mail.tau.ac.il
Gal Chechik Jonathan Berant
Bar-Ilan University, NVIDIA Research Tel Aviv University, AI2
gal.chechik@biu.ac.il joberant@cs.tau.ac.il

Amir Globerson
Tel Aviv University
gamir@post.tau.ac.il

Abstract

Machine understanding of complex images is a key goal of artificial intelligence.
One challenge underlying this task is that visual scenes contain multiple inter-
related objects, and that global context plays an important role in interpreting
the scene. A natural modeling framework for capturing such effects is structured
prediction, which optimizes over complex labels, while modeling within-label
interactions. However, it is unclear what principles should guide the design of a
structured prediction model that utilizes the power of deep learning components.
Here we propose a design principle for such architectures that follows from a
natural requirement of permutation invariance. We prove a necessary and suffi-
cient characterization for architectures that follow this invariance, and discuss its
implication on model design. Finally, we show that the resulting model achieves
new state-of-the-art results on the Visual Genome scene-graph labeling benchmark,
outperforming all recent approaches.

1 Introduction

Understanding the semantics of a complex visual scene is a fundamental problem in machine
perception. It often requires recognizing multiple objects in a scene, together with their spatial and
functional relations. The set of objects and relations is sometimes represented as a graph, connecting
objects (nodes) with their relations (edges) and is known as a scene graph (Figure[Ip. Scene graphs
provide a compact representation of the semantics of an image, and can be useful for semantic-level

interpretation and reasoning about a visual scene|Johnson et al. (2018). Scene-graph prediction is the

problem of inferring the joint set of objects and their relations in a visual scene.

 

Since objects and relations are inter-dependent (e.g., a person and chair are more likely to be in relation
“sitting on” than “eating”), a scene graph predictor should capture this dependence in order to improve
prediction accuracy. This goal is a special case of a more general problem, namely, inferring multiple
inter-dependent labels, which is the research focus of the field of structured prediction. Structured
prediction has attracted considerable attention because it applies to many learning problems and

“Equal Contribution.

32nd Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS 2018), Montréal, Canada.