2003.02320v1 [cs.AI] 4 Mar 2020

arXiv

Knowledge Graphs

AIDAN HOGAN, IMED, DCC, Universidad de Chile, Chile

EVA BLOMQVIST, Linképing University, Sweden

MICHAEL COCHEZ, Vrije Universiteit, The Netherlands

CLAUDIA D’AMATO, University of Bari, Italy

GERARD DE MELO, Rutgers University, USA

CLAUDIO GUTIERREZ, IMED, DCC, Universidad de Chile, Chile

JOSE EMILIO LABRA GAYO, Universidad de Oviedo, Spain

SABRINA KIRRANE, SEBASTIAN NEUMAIER, and AXEL POLLERES, WU Vienna, Austria
ROBERTO NAVIGLI, Sapienza University of Rome, Italy

AXEL-CYRILLE NGONGA NGOMAO, DICE, Universitat Paderborn, Germany

SABBIR M. RASHID, Tetherless World Constellation, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, USA
ANISA RULA, University of Milano-Bicocca, Italy and University of Bonn, Germany
LUKAS SCHMELZEISEN, WeST, Universitat Koblenz—Landau, Germany

JUAN SEQUEDA, data.world, USA

STEFFEN STAAB, Universitat Stuttgart, Germany and University of Southampton, UK
ANTOINE ZIMMERMANN, Ecole des mines de Saint-Etienne, France

In this paper we provide a comprehensive introduction to knowledge graphs, which have recently garnered
significant attention from both industry and academia in scenarios that require exploiting diverse, dynamic,
large-scale collections of data. After a general introduction, we motivate and contrast various graph-based data
models and query languages that are used for knowledge graphs. We discuss the roles of schema, identity, and
context in knowledge graphs. We explain how knowledge can be represented and extracted using a combination
of deductive and inductive techniques. We summarise methods for the creation, enrichment, quality assessment,
refinement, and publication of knowledge graphs. We provide an overview of prominent open knowledge
graphs and enterprise knowledge graphs, their applications, and how they use the aforementioned techniques.
We conclude with high-level future research directions for knowledge graphs.

CCS Concepts: - Information systems — Graph-based database models; Information integration;

Additional Key Words and Phrases: knowledge graph

1 INTRODUCTION

Though the phrase “knowledge graph” has been used in the literature since at least 1972 [440], the
modern incarnation of the phrase stems from the 2012 announcement of the Google Knowledge
Graph [459], followed by further announcements of the development of knowledge graphs by
Airbnb [83], Amazon [280], eBay [392], Facebook [365], IBM [123], LinkedIn [214], Microsoft [457],
Uber [205], and more besides. The growing industrial uptake of the concept proved difficult for
academia to ignore: more and more scientific literature is being published on knowledge graphs,
which includes books (e.g. [400], as well as papers outlining definitions (e.g., [136]), novel techniques
(e.g., [298, 399, 521]), and surveys of specific aspects of knowledge graphs (e.g., [375, 519]).
Underlying all such developments is the core idea of using graphs to represent data, often
enhanced with some way to explicitly represent knowledge [365]. The result is most often used
in application scenarios that involve integrating, managing and extracting value from diverse
sources of data at large scale [365]. Employing a graph-based abstraction of knowledge has a
number benefits in such settings when compared with, for example, a relational model or NoSQL
alternatives. Graphs provide a concise and intuitive abstraction for a variety of domains, where edges
capture the (potentially cyclical) relations between the entities inherent in social data, biological