7.1.1 Syntactic accuracy is the degree to which the data are accurate with respect to the grammat-
ical rules defined for the domain and/or data model. A prevalent example of syntactic inaccuracies
occurs with datatype nodes, which may be incompatible with a defined range or be malformed. For
example, assuming that a property start is defined with the range xsd: dateTime, taking a value

such as (‘March 29, 2019, 20:00"**xsd:string) would be incompatible with the defined range, while a value
“March 29, 2019, 20:00" *xsd:dateTime) would be malformed (a value such as ((2019-11-12T20:00:00"* *xsd:dateTime) is

rather expected). A corresponding metric for syntactic accuracy is the ratio between the number of
incorrect values of a given property and the total number of values for the same property [538].
Such forms of syntactic accuracy can typically be assessed using validation tools [161, 236].

7.1.2 Semantic accuracy is the degree to which data values correctly represent real world phenom-
ena, which may be affected by imprecise extraction results, imprecise entailments, vandalism, etc.
For instance, given that the National Congress of Chile is located in Valparaiso, this may give rise to
the edge (Chile)—capital—> (Valparaiso) (through entailment, extraction, completion, etc.), which is in fact
semantically inaccurate: the Chilean capital is Santiago. Assessing the level of semantic inaccuracies
is challenging. While one option is to apply manual verification, an automatic option may be to
check the stated relation against several sources [141, 293]. Another option is to rather validate the
quality of individual processes used to generate the knowledge graph, based on measures such as
precision, possibly with the help of human experts or gold standards [317].

7.1.3 Timeliness is the degree to which the knowledge graph is currently up-to-date with the
real world state [260]; in other words, a knowledge graph may be semantically accurate now, but
may quickly become inaccurate (outdated) if no procedures are in place to keep it up-to-date in
a timely manner. For example, consider a user checking the tourist knowledge graph for flights
from one city to another. Suppose that the flight timetable is updated every minute with current
flight statuses, but the knowledge graph is only updated every hour. In this case, we see that there
is a quality issue regarding timeliness in the knowledge graph. Timeliness can be assessed based
on how frequently the knowledge graph is updated with respect to underlying sources [260, 427],
which can be done using temporal annotations of changes in the knowledge graph [425, 426], as
well as contextual representations that capture the temporal validity of data (see Section 3.3).

7.2 Coverage

Coverage refers to avoiding the omission of domain-relevant elements, which otherwise may yield
incomplete query results or entailments, biased models, etc.

7.2.1 Completeness refers to the degree to which all required information is present in a particular
dataset. Completeness comprises the following aspects: (i) schema completeness refers to the degree
to which the classes and properties of a schema are represented in the data graph, (ii) property
completeness refers to the ratio of missing values for a specific property, (iii) population completeness
provides the percentage of all real-world entities of a particular type that are represented in
the datasets, and (iv) linkability completeness refers to the degree to which instances in the data
set are interlinked. Measuring completeness directly is non-trivial as it requires knowledge of a
hypothetical ideal knowledge graph [111] that contains all the elements that the knowledge graph
in question should “ideally” represent. Concrete strategies involve comparison with gold standards
that provide samples of the ideal knowledge graph (possibly based on completeness statements [111]),
or measuring the recall of extraction methods from complete sources [317], and so forth.

7.2.2 Representativeness is a related dimension that, instead of focusing on the ratio of domain-
relevant elements that are missing, rather focuses on assessing high-level biases in what is includ-
ed/excluded from the knowledge graph [23]. As such, this dimension assumes that the knowledge

57