10.2.3. Social networks. Enterprise knowledge graphs have also emerged in the context of social
networking services. Facebook [365] have gathered together a knowledge graph describing not
only social data about users, but also the entities they are interested in, including celebrities,
places, movies, music, etc., in order to connect people, understand their interests, and provide
recommendations. LinkedIn [214] announced a knowledge graph containing users, jobs, skills,
companies, places, schools, etc., on top of which a taxonomic schema is defined. The knowledge
graph is used to provide multilingual translations of important concepts, to improve targetted
advertising, to provide advanced features for job search and people search, and likewise to provide
recommendations matching jobs to people (and vice versa). Another knowledge graph has been
created by Pinterest [188], describing users and their interests, the latter being organised into a
taxonomy. The main use-cases for the knowledge graph are to aid users to more easily find content
of interest to them, as well as to enhance revenue through targetted advertisements.

10.2.4. Finance. The financial sector has also seen deployment of enterprise knowledge graphs.
Amongst these, Bloomberg [326] has proposed a knowledge graph that powers financial data
analytics, including sentiment analysis for companies based on current news reports and tweets,
a question answering service, as well as detecting emerging events that may affect stock values.
Thompson Reuters (Refinitiv) [495] have likewise announced a knowledge graph encoding “the
financial ecosystem” of people, organisations, equity instruments, industry classifications, joint
ventures and alliances, supply chains, etc., using a taxonomic schema to organise these entities.
Some of the applications they mention for the knowledge graph include supply chain monitoring,
risk assessment, and investment research. Knowledge graphs have also been explored in academic
settings with Banca d'Italia [32], using rule-based reasoning to determine, for example, the per-
centage of ownership of a company by various stakeholders. Other companies exploring financial
knowledge graphs include Accenture [368], Capital One [65], Wells Fargo [355], amongst others.

10.2.5 Other industries. Enterprises have also been actively developing knowledge graphs to
enable novel applications in a variety of other industries, including: health-care, where IBM are
exploring use-cases for drug discovery [365] and information extraction from package inserts [173],
while AstraZeneca [34] are using a knowledge graph to advance genomics research and disease
understanding; transport, where Bosch are exploring a knowledge graph of scenes and locations
for driving automation [223]; oil & gas, where Maana [107] are using knowledge graphs to perform
data integration for risk mitigation regarding oil wells and drilling; and more besides.

11 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION

We have provided a comprehensive introduction to knowledge graphs, which have been receiving
more and more attention in recent years. Under the definition of a knowledge graph as a graph of
data intended to accumulate and convey knowledge of the real world, whose nodes represent entities
of interest and whose edges represent relations between these entities, we have discussed models by
which data can be structured as graphs; representations of schema, identity and context; techniques
for leveraging deductive and inductive knowledge; methods for the creation, enrichment, quality
assessment and refinement of knowledge graphs; principles and standards for publishing knowledge
graphs; and finally, the adoption of knowledge graphs in the real world.

Knowledge graphs ultimately serve as a common substrate of knowledge within an organisation
or community, enabling the representation, accumulation, curation, and dissemination of knowl-
edge over time [365]. In this role, knowledge graphs have been applied in a wide variety of use-cases,
ranging from commercial applications — involving semantic search, user recommendations, conver-
sational agents, targetted advertising, transport automation, etc. — to open knowledge graphs made
available for the public good. Some general trends in adoption include: (1) the use of knowledge

75