interactions, bibliographical citations and co-authorships, transport networks, and so forth [15].
Graphs allow maintainers to postpone the definition of a schema, allowing the data — and its scope
— to evolve in a more flexible manner than typically possible in a relational setting, particularly
for capturing incomplete knowledge [2]. Unlike (other) NoSQL models, specialised graph query
languages support not only standard relational operators (joins, unions, projections, etc.), but
also navigational operators for recursively finding entities connected through arbitrary-length
paths [14]. Standard knowledge representation formalisms — such as ontologies [66, 228, 344]
and rules [242, 270] —- can be employed to define and reason about the semantics of the terms
used to label and describe the nodes and edges in the graph. Scalable frameworks for graph
analytics [314, 478, 529] can be leveraged for computing centrality, clustering, summarisation, etc.,
in order to gain insights about the domain being described. Various representations have also been
developed that support applying machine learning techniques directly over graphs [519, 527].

In summary, the decision to build and use a knowledge graph opens up a range of techniques
than can be brought to bear for integrating and extracting value from diverse sources of data.
However, we have yet to see a general unifying summary that describes how knowledge graphs are
being used, what techniques they employ, and how they relate to existing data management topics.

The goal of this tutorial paper is to motivate and give a comprehensive introduction to knowl-
edge graphs: to describe their foundational data models and how they can be queried; to discuss
representations relating to schema, identity, and context; to discuss deductive and inductive ways
to make knowledge explicit; to present a variety of techniques that can be used for the creation
and enrichment of graph-structured data; to describe how the quality of knowledge graphs can be
discerned and how they can be refined; to discuss standards and best practices by which knowledge
graphs can be published; and to provide an overview of existing knowledge graphs found in practice.
Our intended audience includes researchers and practitioners who are new to knowledge graphs.
As such, we do not assume that readers have specific expertise on knowledge graphs.

Knowledge graph. The definition of a “knowledge graph” remains contentious [36, 53, 136], where
a number of (sometimes conflicting) definitions have emerged, varying from specific technical
proposals to more inclusive general proposals; we address these prior definitions in Appendix A.
Herein we adopt an inclusive definition, where we view a knowledge graph as a graph of data
intended to accumulate and convey knowledge of the real world, whose nodes represent entities of
interest and whose edges represent relations between these entities. The graph of data (aka data graph)
conforms to a graph-based data model, which may be a directed edge-labelled graph, a property
graph, etc. (we discuss concrete alternatives in Section 2). By knowledge, we refer to something
that is known!. Such knowledge may be accumulated from external sources, or extracted from the
knowledge graph itself. Knowledge may be composed of simple statements, such as “Santiago is
the capital of Chile”, or quantified statements, such as “all capitals are cities”. Simple statements
can be accumulated as edges in the data graph. If the knowledge graph intends to accumulate
quantified statements, a more expressive way to represent knowledge — such as ontologies or rules
— is required. Deductive methods can then be used to entail and accumulate further knowledge (e.g.,
“Santiago is a city”). Additional knowledge — based on simple or quantified statements — can also be
extracted from and accumulated by the knowledge graph using inductive methods.

Knowledge graphs are often assembled from numerous sources, and as a result, can be highly
diverse in terms of structure and granularity. To address this diversity, representations of schema,
identity, and context often play a key role, where a schema defines a high-level structure for the
knowledge graph, identity denotes which nodes in the graph (or in external sources) refer to
the same real-world entity, while context may indicate a specific setting in which some unit of

1A number of specific definitions for knowledge have been proposed in the literature on epistemology.