Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2020

 

B.2 PROOF OF COROLLARY. 1]

 

In the LOCAL model the reasoning is elementary (Linial| 1992} |Fraigniaud et al.|2013}|Seidel]{2015):
suppose that the graph is represented by a set of edges and further consider that ALG; amounts to a
union operation. Then in d = dg rounds, the state of each node will contain the entire graph. The
function ALG} can then be used to make the final computation. This argument also trivially holds for
node/edge attributes. The universality of GNNfj, then follows by the equivalence of LOCAL and

GNN}).

 

B.3 PROOF OF THEOREM[4. 1]

First note that, since the GNNj,, and LOCAL models are equivalent, if no further memory/width
restrictions are placed, an impossibility for one implies also an impossibility for the other. It can also
be seen in Theorem. I]that there is a one to one mapping between the internal state of each node at

each level between the two models (i.e., variables ao) and 3), As such, impossibility results that
rely on restrictions w.r.t. state size (in terms of bits) also transfer between the models.

To proceed, I demonstrate that a depth lower bound in the CONGEST model (i-e., in the LOCAL
model with bounded message size) also implies the existence of a depth lower bound in the LOCAL
model with a bounded state size—with this result in place, the proof of the main claim follows
directly. As in the statement of the theorem, one starts by assuming that P cannot be solved in less
than d rounds when messages are bounded to be at most b bits. Then, for the sake of contradiction, it
is supposed that there exists an algorithm A € LOCAL that can solve P in less than d rounds with a
state of at most c bits, but unbounded message size. I argue that the existence of this algorithm also
implies the existence of a second algorithm A’ whose messages are bounded by c + log, n: since

i)

each message s;/_; is the output of a universal Turing machine ALG? that takes as input the tuple

(s0?, vi), algorithm A’ directly sends the input and relies on the universality of ALG}, 4 to simulate

the action of ALG?. The message size bound follows by adding the size c of the state with that of
representing the node id (log, n bits suffice for unique node ids). This line of reasoning leads to a
contradiction when c < b — log, n, as it implies that there exists an algorithm (namely A’) that can
solve P in less than d rounds while using messages of at most b bits. Hence, no algorithm whose
state is less than b — log, n bits can solve P in LOCAL, and the width of GNNj,, has to be at least

(b — logy n)/p.

CAN EXPLANATION OF THE LOWER BOUNDS FOR CYCLE DETECTION AND
DIAMETER ESTIMATION

A common technique for obtaining lower bounds in the CONGEST model is by reduction to the
set-disjointness problem in two-player communication complexity: Suppose that Alice and Bob are
each given some secret string (s, and s,) of q bits. The two players use the string to construct a set
by selecting the elements from the base set {1,2,...,q} for which the corresponding bit is one. It is

known that Alice and Bob cannot determine whether their sets are disjoint or not without exchanging
at least 2.(q) bits (Kalyanasundaram & Schintger| 1992} Chor & Goldreich] 1988).

The reduction involves constructing a graph that is partially known by each player. Usually, Alice
and Bob start knowing half of the graph (red and green induced subgraphs in Figure). The players
then use their secret string to control some aspect of their private topology (subgraphs annotated in
dark gray). Let the resulting graph be G(sq, sp») and denote by cut the number of edges connecting
the subgraphs controlled by Alice and Bob. To derive a lower bound for some problem P, one needs
to prove that a solution for P in G(sg, 8») would also reveal whether the two sets are disjoint or not.
Since each player can exchange at most O(b - cut) bits per round, at least Q(q/(b- cut)) rounds are

needed in total in CONGEST. By Theorem|4.1] one then obtains a d = Q(q/(w log n - cut)) depth
lower bound for GNNijp-

 

 

The two examples in Figure[3Jillustrate the graphs G(s,, s)) giving rise to the lower bounds for even
k-cycle detection and diameter estimation. To reduce occlusion, only a subset of the edges are shown.

15