Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2020

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

— anonymous degree —— random unique id — unique id ‘a
1 !
1.0 1.0
al
0.9
70.9 5.0.9
2 83!
308 Fos 3 0.8
s & >
2 o s2
207 £07 s 07
8 2 =
S06 0.6 1
0.6
0.5 0.5} ? a2
o|
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 a TSS OS
epoch epoch depth critical
(a) effect of anonymity (b) depth vs width

Figure 2: (a) GNNs are significantly more powerful when given discriminative node attributes. (b) Test
accuracy indicated by color as a function of normalized depth and width. Points in highlighted areas
correspond to networks with super-critical capacity, whereas the diagonal line separates networks
that more deep than wide. (For improved visibility, points are slightly perturbed. Best seen in color.)

striking to observe that even the most powerful networks considered could not achieve a test accuracy
above 95% for n > 16; for n = 40 their best accuracy was below 80%.

Effect of anonymity. Figure [2a] plots example training and test curves for GNNmp trained with
four different node attributes: no attributes (anonymous), a one-hot encoding of the node degrees
(degree), a one-hot encoding of node ids (unique id), and a one-hot encoding of node ids that changed
across graphs (random unique id). It can be clearly observed that there is a direct correlation between
accuracy and the type of attributes used. With non- or partially-discriminative attributes, the network
could not detect cycles even in the training set. The cycle detection problem was solved exactly
with unique ids, but when the latter were inconsistently assigned, the network could not learn to
generalize.

Exchangeability of depth and width. Figure[2bjexamines further the relationship between depth,
width, and test accuracy. This time, networks were separated depending on their depth and width
normalized by the square root of the “critical capacity”. For each n, the critical capacity is the
minimum dw of a network that was able to solve the task on a graph of n nodes—here, solving
amounts to a test accuracy above 95%. In this way, a network of depth d and width w tested on
n nodes corresponds to a point positioned at x = d/,/critical, y = w/V critical and no network
positioned at wy < 1 can solve the task (non-highlighted region in the bottom left corner). As seen,
there is a crisp phase transition between the regime of under- and super-critical capacity: almost every
network meeting the condition dw > critical was able to solve the task, irrespective of whether the
depth or width was larger. Note that, the exchangeability of depth and width cannot be guaranteed by
the proposed theory which asserts that the condition dw = O(/n) is necessary—but not sufficient.
The empirical results however do agree with the hypothesis that, for 4-cycle classification, depth and
width are indeed exchangeable.

6 CONCLUSION

This work studied the expressive power of graph neural networks falling within the message-passing
framework. Two results were derived. First, sufficient conditions were provided such that GNNmp
can compute any function computable by a Turing machine with the same connected graph as input.
Second, it was discovered that the product of a GNNmp’s depth and width plays a prominent role in
determining whether the network can solve various graph-theoretic problems. Specifically, it was
shown that GNNf, with dw = Q(n%) and 6 € [0.5, 2] cannot solve a range of decision, optimization,
and estimation problems involving graphs. Overall, the proposed results demonstrate that the power
of graph neural networks depends critically on their capacity and illustrate the importance of using
discriminative node attributes.

Acknowledgements. | thank the Swiss National Science Foundation for supporting this work in the
context of the project “Deep Learning for Graph-Structured Data” (grant number PZOOP2 179981).

10