Query and Ground Truth Result Ranking of w2v

Result Ranking of d2v—cac Result Ranking of h-d2v

 

...We also evaluate our model | 1.
by computing the machine trans- | Statistical Translation

lation BLEU score (Papineni | 2. — Indirect-HMM-based Hypothe-
et al., 2002) using the Moses | sis Alignment for Combining Outputs
system (Koehn et al., 2007)... from Machine Translation Systems

3, The Alignment Template Approach
to Statistical Machine Translation

HMM-Based Word Alignment in

(Papineni et al., 2002) BLEU: a
Method for Automatic Evalua-
tion of Machine Translation
(Koehn et al., 2007) Moses:
Open Source Toolkit for Sta-
tistical Machine Translation

9. Moses: Open Source Toolkit for
Statistical Machine Translation

57. BLEU: a Method for Automatic
Evaluation of Machine Translation

1. Discriminative Reranking for Ma- | 1. BLEU: a Method for Au-
chine Translation tomatic Evaluation of Machine
2, Learning Phrase-Based Head Trans- | ‘Translation

duction Models for Translation of Spo- | 2. Statistical Phrase-Based
ken Utterances Translation

3. Cognates Can Improve Statistical | 3. Improved Statistical Align-
Translation Models ment Models

4. HMM-Based Word Align-
ment in Statistical Translation

5. Moses: Open Source Toolkit
for Statistical Machine Trans-
lation

6. BLEU: a Method for Automatic
Evaluation of Machine Translation
29. Moses: Open Source Toolkit for
Statistical Machine Translation

 

 

Table 9: Papers recommended by different approaches for a citation context in Zhao and Gildea (2010).

 

[_]EMNLP'06 (Macro: 57.00 Micro: 77.00)
away
[EE d2-cac
Eb -c2v

(Macro: 44.86 Micro: 74.43)
(Macro: 24.19 Micro: 70.64)
(Macro: 54.37 Micro: 75.39)

 

 

 

 

¥ ed © oo A oo SS oS € KS
ve £ XSF So eS aS CEES

eo eS S

Figure 4: F; of citation function classification.

kernels and default parameters. Following Teufel
et al. (2006), we use 10-fold cross validation.
Figure 4 depicts the F; scores. Scores of Teufel
et al. (2006)’s approach are from the original pa-
per. We omit d2v—nc because it is very inferior to
d2v-cac. We have the following observations.
First, Teufel et al. (2006)’s feature-engineering-
based approach has the best performance. Note
that we cannot obtain their original cross valida-
tion split, so the comparison may not be fair and is
only for consideration in terms of numbers.
Second, among all embedding-based methods,
h-d2v has the best citation function classification
results, which is close to Teufel et al. (2006)’s.
Finally, the d2v—cac vectors are only good at
Neutral, the largest class. On the other classes and
global F;, they are outperformed by w2v vectors.
To study how citation function affects citation
recommendation, we combine the 2,824 labeled
citation contexts and another 1,075 labeled con-
texts the authors published later to train an SVM,
and apply it to the DBLP testing set to get cita-
tion functions. We evaluate citation recommenda-
tion performance of w2v (140), d2v—cac, and
h-d2v on a per-citation-function basis. In Fig-
ure 5, we break down Rec@10 scores on citation
functions. On the six largest classes (marked by
solid dots), h—d2v outperforms all competitors.

Count

 

FS SF oS k SS
x oe LEE SS

SS SF oe SK
SFE ES ©

o

Figure 5: Rec@ 10 w.r.t. citation functions.

To better investigate the impact of context intent
awareness, Table 9 shows recommended papers of
the running example of this paper. Here, Zhao and
Gildea (2010) cited the BLEU metric (Papineni
et al., 2002) and Moses tools (Koehn et al., 2007)
of machine translation. However, the additional
words “machine translation” lead both w2v and
d2v-cac to recommend many machine transla-
tion papers. Only our h-d2v manages to recog-
nize the citation function “using tools/algorithms
(PBas)”, and concentrates on the citation intent to
return the right papers in top-5 results.

6 Conclusion

We focus on the hyper-doc embedding problem.
We propose that hyper-doc embedding algorithms
should be content aware, context aware, new-
comer friendly, and context intent aware. To meet
all four criteria, we propose a general approach,
hyperdoc2vec, which assigns two vectors to
each hyper-doc and models citations in a straight-
forward manner. In doing so, the learned embed-
dings satisfy all criteria, which no existing model
is able to. For evaluation, paper classification and
citation recommendation are conducted on three
academic paper datasets. Results confirm the ef-
fectiveness of our approach. Further analyses also
demonstrate that possessing the four properties
helps h—d2v outperform other models.

2392