WWW ’20, April 20-24, 2020, Taipei, Taiwan

Auto-completion for ‘E =m’ — Suggestions for ‘E = {m, c}’

 

 

Sug. Expression TF DF | Sug. Expression TF DF
E=me* 558 376 | E=mce* 558 376
E=mcoshé 23. 23 | E=ymc? 39-38
E=mv 7 7 | E=ymec? 41 36
E=m/V1-@ 12 6] E=mcoshé 23 23
E=m/yi-f? 10 6] E=-me? 35°17
E=mce*y 6 6 | E=ym'ct+ pc? 10 8

 

 

Table 5: Suggestions to complete ‘E = m’ and ‘E = {m,c}’ (the
right-hand side contains m and c) with term and document
frequency based on the distributions of formulae in arXiv.

who wants to search for mathematical expressions that are related
to eigenvalues. A textual search query would only retrieve entire
documents that require further investigation to find related ex-
pressions. A mathematical search engine, on the other hand, is
impractical since it is not clear what would be a fitting search query
(e.g., Av = Av?). Moreover, formula and textual search systems for
scientific corpora are separated from each other. Thus, a textual
search engine capable of retrieving mathematical formulae can be
beneficial. Also, many search engines allow for narrowing down
relevant hits by suggesting filters based on the retrieved results.
This technique is known as faceted search. The zbMATH search
engine also provides faceted search, e.g., by authors, or year. Adding
facets for mathematical expressions allows users to narrow down
the results more precisely to arrive at specific documents.

Our proposed system for extracting relevant expressions from sci-
entific corpora via mBM25 scores can be used to search for formulae
even with textual search queries, and to add more filters for faceted
search implementations. Table 4 shows two examples of such an ex-
tension for zo»MATH’s search engine. Searching for ‘Riemann Zeta
Function’ and ‘Eigenvalue’ retrieved 4,739 and 25,248 documents
from zbMATH, respectively. Table 4 shows the most frequently used
mathematical expressions in the set of retrieved documents. It also
shows the reordered formulae according to a default TF-IDF score
(with normalized term frequencies) and our proposed mBM25 score.
The results can be used to add filters for faceted search, e.g., show
only the documents which contain u € wy P, (Q). Additionally, the
search system now provides more intuitive textual inputs even for
retrieving mathematical formulae. The retrieved formulae are also
interesting by themselves, since they provide insightful information
on the retrieved publications. As already explored with our custom
document search system in Figure 5, the Riemann hypothesis is
also prominent in these retrieved documents.

The differences between TF-IDF and mBM25 ranking illustrates
the problem of an extensive evaluation of our system. From a
broader perspective, the hit Ax = ABx is highly correlated with the
input query ‘Eigenvalue’. On the other hand, the raw frequencies
revealed a prominent role of div(|Vu|?~? Vu). Therefore, the top
results of the mBM25 ranking can also be considered as relevant.
Math Notation Analysis: A faceted search system allows us to
analyze mathematical notations in more detail. For instance, we can

retrieve documents from a specific time period. This allows one to
study the evolution of mathematical notation over time [4], or for

A. Greiner-Petter, et al

identifying trends in specific fields. Also, we can analyze standard
notations for specific authors since it is often assumed that authors
prefer a specific notation style which may vary from the standard
notation in a field.

Math Recommendation Systems: The frequency distributions
of formulae can be used to realize effective math recommendation
tasks, such as type hinting or error-corrections. These approaches
require long training on large datasets, but may still generate
meaningless results, such as Gj; = {(x,y) € R” : x; = x;} [42].
We propose a simpler system which takes advantage of our fre-
quency distributions. We retrieve entries from our result database,
which contain all unique expressions and their frequencies. We
implemented a simple prototype that retrieves the entries via pat-
tern matching. Table 5 shows two examples. The left side of the
table shows suggested autocompleted expressions for the query
‘E=m’. The right side shows suggestions for ‘E =’, where the right-
hand side of the equation should contain m and c in any order. A
combination using more advanced retrieval techniques, such as
similarity measures based on symbol layout trees [7, 45], would
enlarge the number of suggestions. This kind of autocomplete and
error-correction type-hinting system would be beneficial for vari-
ous use-cases, e.g., in educational software or for search engines as
a pre-processing step of the input.

Plagiarism Detection Systems: As previously mentioned, plagia-
rism detection systems [28, 29, 39] would benefit from a system
capable of distinguishing conventional from uncommon notations.
The approaches described by Meuschke et al. [29] outperform ex-
isting approaches by considering frequency distributions of single
identifiers (expressions of complexity one). Considering that single
identifiers make up only 0.03% of all unique expressions in arXiv,
we presume that better performance can be achieved by consider-
ing more complex expressions. The conferred string representation
also provides a simple format to embed complex expressions in
existing learning algorithms.

Expressions with high complexities that are shared among mul-
tiple documents may provide further hints to investigate poten-
tial plagiarisms. For instance, the most complex expression that
was shared among three documents in arXiv was Equation (3). A
complex expression being identical in multiple documents could
indicate a higher likelihood of plagiarism. Further investigation
revealed that similar expressions, e.g., with infinite sums, are fre-
quently used among a larger set of documents. Thus, the expression
seems to be a part of a standard notation that is commonly shared,
rather than a good candidate for plagiarism detection. Resulting
from manual investigations, we could identify the equation as part
of a concept called generalized Hardy-Littlewood inequality and
Equation (3) appears in the three documents [2, 5, 32]. All three
documents shared one author in common. Thus, this case also
demonstrates a correlation between complex mathematical nota-
tions and authorship.

Semantic Taggers and Extraction Systems: We previously men-
tioned that semantic extraction systems [23, 36, 37] and semantic
math taggers [6, 43] have difficulties in extracting the essential
components (MOIs) from complex expressions. Considering the
definition of the Jacobi polynomial in Equation (1), it would be
beneficial to extract the groups of tokens that belong together, such

as PL%P) (0) or I(@ + m + 1). With our proposed search engine