556 F. Ensan, W. Du

Q Q

Journalism Journalism

  

 

OO e6|/|O0 e6

Knight Ridder Newspaper "William Dean Star-News Knight Ridder Newspaper William Dean Star-News
Singleton Singleton

(a) (b)

Fig. 2 Sample query and document relationship model. a Semantic relationships between concepts. b Rela-
tionships used by SELM for semantic ranking

 

learn appropriate weights for different feature functions based on the available training data.
In this paper, we do not restrict the input document concepts to form a chain. In fact, concepts
in the document can form a graph in any arbitrary shape. In addition, we attempt to build
a generative language model contrary to the most dominant application of CRFs applied to
discriminative problems. In other words, we are not interested in learning the best weights
for diverse features that converge to the maximum value over a training dataset, instead,
given the semantic relatedness between the observed concepts, we are interested in finding
the probability that a query concept is generated from a specific document.

As an illustrative example, consider the query gq = {Journalism} and the document d that
is composed of the following paragraph, which is selected from Document LA082290-0094
of TREC CDS:

Singleton, [...], bought the Star-News for $55 million from the Knight-Ridder newspa-
per chain in June 1989.

Figure 2a shows the representation of the query and the document based on their concepts
and semantic relatedness relationships. As seen in the figure, four concepts ‘Knight Ridder,’
“William Dean Singleton,’ ‘Newspaper,’ and ‘Star-News’ have been spotted in the document.
Also, the concept ‘Journalism’ has been found in the query. Dashed lines show semantic
relatedness between the query concept and document concepts, and solid lines represent
semantic relatedness between document concepts. In this figure, concepts correspond to the
Wikipedia articles with the same names and semantic relatedness are found using a semantic
analysis system that estimates relatedness between Wikipedia entries.

This example highlights two main challenges of representing documents and queries based
on their semantic concepts, which we address in the following. First, contrary to the bag-of-
words model, where the probability of generating a query term given a document is estimated
based on its occurrence in the document and in the collection, here we need to model seman-
tic relatedness between query concepts and document concepts. We represent relatedness
relations as probability dependencies. In our model, two semantically related concepts are
modeled as dependent neighbors and two not semantically related concepts are modeled as
non-neighboring nodes, which are independent given all other concepts. For forming this
graph, our model relies on semantic analysis systems that measure semantic relatedness

a Springer