Ad hoc retrieval via entity linking and semantic similarity S61

interpolation of SELM + SDM proves to be effective in that this relevant document is ranked in
position 9.

5 Query expansion for implementing SELM over semantic indices

Query expansion, expanding an original query with additional words for the purpose of
expressing user intent more effectively, has been widely explored in the literature, and very
successful results have been reported so far [54]. Recently, knowledge-enabled query expan-
sion techniques, i.e., automatic methods that utilize knowledge expressed in sources like
Wikipedia and Freebase for query expansion, have been introduced and implemented [7,52].

In this section, we investigate SELM more thoroughly and show that although it is defined
as a language model for retrieval, it can be implemented by expanding queries not with words
or texts but with a set of related concepts.

Given a query, for being matched and selected for ranking, a document must have a
conditional probability more than zero. Recalling Eq. (3) in Sect. 3.3, it means that there
should be at least one feature f; that is defined over cliques in the query and the document
whose value is greater than zero. Referring to Eq. (5), it means that there should be at least
one pair of concepts x and y whose semantic relatedness is greater than zero. Also recall that
the concept indexer module of the semantic retrieval framework (Fig. 1) indexes concepts
found by the semantic annotation module for each document, but does not index the related
concepts. Observably, it is difficult to search over concept indices for finding documents that
do not have the exact query concepts but have the related ones.

As an example, consider the Trec query #324: ‘Argentine/British Relations.’ This query is
annotated with a Wikipedia article with Wikipedia Id #16594665, which is named ‘Argentina
United Kingdom relations.’ Also let d, be an arbitrary document that is annotated with just
one concept: the Wikipedia article #82533, which is named ‘International relations.’ In the
concept index produced by concept indexer module in Fig. 1, there is a posting list associated
with concept #82533 that includes document d;. Assuming that the concept ‘International
relations’ is semantically related to ‘Argentine/British Relations,’ finding d for this query
over the concept index is a challenge that needs to be addressed.

For addressing this issue, we employ a simple yet effective approach that logically pro-
duces the same set of results but is much simpler to implement given the structure of inverted
indices that we have used. According to this approach, we expand a given query with all
concepts that are semantically related to its concepts, using semantic relatedness measures
as a coefficient. We pose this new query against the semantic index and find matching doc-
uments. We rank the matching documents using SELM considering the original query. It
should be noticed that although we expand the query for finding matching documents, we
use the original query concepts in our ranking module. In our example, we pose query
“16594665 OR (0.2)82533’ against the semantic index meaning that those documents that
contain concept #16594665 match the query and return value | for the feature defined over
the clique (16594665, 16594665). But those documents that contain concept #82533 match
the query and return value 0.2 for the feature defined over the clique (16594665 , 82533). In
the following, we show why the results of the expanded query are the same as the original
formation of SELM.

Without loss of generality and based on the query term independence assumption, let us
assume c; is the query concept found in q (the other concepts will be treated independently).
Further assume, C = {cj} 0 < i < m are semantically related concepts to cx found by the

a Springer