562 F. Ensan, W. Du

semantic analysis module, where m is the total number of concepts in the knowledge base
and i be any number between 0 and m. Let the degree of similarity be measured as {rj}
0 <i < m where 7; are real numbers between 0 and 1. The expanded query will be C, where
each adding concept c; has a effectiveness coefficient equal to its corresponding r;. For any
arbitrary document with concepts D = {c;} 0 < i < m, we can define feature functions over
binary cliques (c;, cj), when c; € C and cj € D. Based on our approach, we do not find all
cliques between all possible pairs over C and D. Instead, we consider cliques over exactly
matching pairs of concepts, i.e., all pairs in the form of (c;, c;) and the value for the feature
defined over this pair is equal to its related r;. The value of any feature function defined
over (cj, c;) in this expanded model is equal to the value of the feature function defined
over (cx, cj) in the original model. Hence, the probability estimated by Eq. (3) is exactly the
same in both cases. Clearly our expansion method is a way around implementing SELM over
concept indices and is identical with the original language model presented in Sect. 3.

6 Different configurations of our framework

In this section, we describe three configurations of the proposed semantic retrieval framework.
These configurations differ in their semantic analysis module, which measures the degree
of similarity between concepts. Figure 3 shows the three different configurations of the
framework. As seen in this figure, Wikipedia is the knowledge base that is used as the
underlying source for entities. We chose to use the Tagme entity linking engine to play the
role of the semantic annotation module in these configurations. The choice of this annotation
engine was motivated by a recent study reported in [6] that showed that Tagme was the best

Results

froma
Ranked keyword

list of based IR
Results system

 

Integration
Module

 

FileWriter/
FileReader

Documents
Concept Index Relatedness File Text Indexes

Indexes

 

Fig. 3 Three configurations of the semantic retrieval framework

a Springer