Learning Joint Query Interpretation and Response Ranking

Uma Sawant
IIT Bombay, Yahoo! Labs
uma @cse.iitb.ac.in

ABSTRACT

Thanks to information extraction and semantic Web efforts,
search on unstructured text is increasingly refined using se-
mantic annotations and structured knowledge bases. How-
ever, most users cannot become familiar with the schema
of knowledge bases and ask structured queries. Interpret-
ing free-format queries into a more structured representa-
tion is of much current interest. The dominant paradigm
is to segment or partition query tokens by purpose (refer-
ences to types, entities, attribute names, attribute values,
relations) and then launch the interpreted query on struc-
tured knowledge bases. Given that structured knowledge
extraction is never complete, here we choose a less trodden
path: a data representation that retains the unstructured
text corpus, along with structured annotations (mentions of
entities and relationships) on it. We propose two new, natu-
ral formulations for joint query interpretation and response
ranking that exploit bidirectional flow of information be-
tween the knowledge base and the corpus. One, inspired by
probabilistic language models, computes expected response
scores over the uncertainties of query interpretation. The
other is based on max-margin discriminative learning, with
latent variables representing those uncertainties. In the con-
text of typed entity search, both formulations bridge a con-
siderable part of the accuracy gap between a generic query
that does not constrain the type at all, and the upper bound
where the “perfect” target entity type of each query is pro-
vided by humans. Our formulations are also superior to a
two-stage approach of first choosing a target type using re-
cent query type prediction techniques, and then launching a
type-restricted entity search query.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.3.3 [Information Storage and Retrieval]: Information
Search and Retrieval

Keywords

Query interpretation; Entity search

1. INTRODUCTION

Web information representation is getting more sophisti-
cated, thanks to information extraction and semantic Web
efforts. Much structured and semistructured data now sup-
plements unstructured, free-format textual pages. In verti-
cals such as e-commerce, the structured data can be accessed
through forms and faceted search. However, a large number
of free-format queries remain outside the scope of verticals.
As we shall review in Section] there is much recent research
on analyzing and annotating them.

Here we focus on a specific kind of entity search query:
some words (called selectors) in the query are meant to oc-
cur literally in a response document (as in traditional text

Copyright is held by the International World Wide Web Conference
Committee (IW3C2). IW3C2 reserves the right to provide a hyperlink
to the author’s site if the Material is used in electronic media.
WWW 2018, May 13-17, 2013, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

ACM 978-1-4503-2035- 1/13/05.

RIGHTS LIN Ka

1099

Soumen Chakrabarti
IIT Bombay
soumen @cse.iitb.ac.in

search), but other words hint at the type of entity sought
by the query. Unlike prior work on translating well-formed
sentences or questions to structured queries using deep NLP,
we are interested in handling “telegraphic” queries that are
typically sent to search engines. Each response entity must
be a member of the hinted type.

Note that this problem is quite different from finding an-
swers to well-formed natural language questions (e.g., in
Wolfram Alpha) from structured knowledge bases (perhaps
curated through information extraction). Also observe that
we do not restrict ourselves to queries that seek entities by
attribute values or attributes of a given entity (both are
valuable query templates for e-commerce and have been re-
searched). In our setup, some responses may only be col-
lected from diverse, open-domain, free-format text sources.
E.g., typical driving time between Paris and Nice (the target
type is time duration), or cricketers who scored centuries at
Lords (the target type is cricketers).

       
    
  
 

instanceOf
1

'
ty: San Diego Padies..
oo

  

Evidence snippe mentionOf

By comparison, e Padres have been to two
World Séries, losing in 1984 and 1998. °

Figure 1: Example of a collective, joint query in-
terpretation and entity ranking problem; includes a
query containing different possible hint and selector
words, partially matching types with member enti-
ties and corpus snippets

The target type (or a more general supertype, such as
sportsperson in place of cricketer) may be instantiated in a
catalog, but the typical user has no knowledge of the catalog
or its schema. Large catalogs like Wikipedia or Freebase
evolve “organically”. They are not designed by linguists, and
they are not minimal or canonical in any sense. Types have
overlaps and redundancies. The query interpreter should
take advantage of specialized types whenever available, but
otherwise gracefully back off to broader types.

Figure[[]shows a query that has at least two plausible hint
word sets: {team, baseball} (correct) and {world, series} (in-