Kandimalla et al.

se ot
ve
os
Mineralogy 01
an
iy cemmyts 08 0 Los
cath 8 at
geooe™

 

000

 

Subject Category Classification

Figure 7. Normalized Confusion Matrix for closely-related classes in which a large fraction of
“Geology” and “Mineralogy” papers are classified into “GeoChemistry GeoPhysics (left), and a large
fraction of Zoology papers are classified into biology” or ecology” (middle), a large fraction of
“TeleCommunications’,“Mechanics” and “EnergyFuels” papers are classified into “Engineering’’(right).

in the majority class to the number of samples
in the minority class (2012), has
been commonly used to characterize the level of
imbalance. Compared with the imbalance datasets
in Table 1 of [2015), our data has a
significantly high level of imbalance. In particular,
the highest IR is about 49,000 (#Physics/#Art). One
commonly used way to mitigate this problem is data
resampling. This method is based on rebalancing
SC distributions by either deleting instances of
major SCs (undersampling) or supplementing
artificially generated instances of the minor SCs
(oversampling). We can always undersample major
SCs, but this means we have to reduce sample sizes
of all SCs down to about 15 (Art; Figure[2), which is
too small for training robust neural network models.
The oversampling strategies such as SMOTE

(Chawla et al.,|2002) works for problems involving
continuous numerical quantities, e. g.,SalahEldeen|
(2015). In our case, the synthesize

vectors of “abstracts” by SMOTE will not map
to any actual words because word representations
are very sparsely distributed in the large WE
space. Even if we oversample minor SCs using
these semantically dummy vectors, generating all
samples will take a large amount of time given the
high dimensionality of abstract vectors and high IR.
Therefore, we only use our real data.

7.2 Category Overlapping

We discuss the potential impact on classification
results contributed by categories overlapping in
the training data. Our initial classification schema
contains 104 SCs, but they are not all mutually
exclusive. Instead, the vocabularies of some
categories overlap with the others. For example,
papers exclusively labeled as “Materials Science”
and “Metallurgy” exhibit significant overlap in
their tokens. In the WE space, the semantic
vectors labeled with either category are overlapped
making it hard to differentiate them. Figure
shows the confusion matrices of the closely related
categories such as “Geology”, “Mineralogy”, and
“Geochemistry Geophysics”. Figure]is the t-SNE
plot of abstracts of closely related SCs. To make
the plot less crowded, we randomly select 250
abstracts from each SC as shown in Figure[/] Data
points representing “Geology”, “Mineralogy”, and
“Geochemistry Geophysics” tend to spread or are
overlapped in such a way that are hard to be visually
distinguished.

One way to mitigate this problem is to merge
overlapped categories. However, special care should
be taken on whether these overlapped SCs are
truly strongly related and should be evaluated
by domain experts. For example, “Zoology”,
“PlantSciences”, and “Ecology” can be merged into
a single SC called “Biology” (Gaff 2019, private

communication). “Geology”, “Mineralogy”, and

11