Kandimalla et al.

classify scholarly papers into a comprehensive set of
SCs. Other work focused on unsupervised methods
and most were developed for specific category
domains. In contrast, our classifier was trained
on a large number of high quality abstracts from
the WoS and can be applied directly to abstracts
without any citation information. We also develop a
novel representation of scholarly paper abstracts
using ranked tokens and their word embedding
representations. This significantly reduces the scale
of the classic Bag of Word (BoW) model. We
also retrained FastText and GloVe word embedding
models using WoS abstracts. The subject category
classification was then applied to the CiteSeerX
collection of documents. However, it could be
applied to any similar collection.

2 RELATED WORK

Text classification is a fundamental task in natural
language processing. Many complicated tasks use
it or include it as a necessary first step, e.g.,
part-of-speech tagging, e.g., (Ratnaparkhil |[996),
sentiment analysis, e.g., (Vo and Zhang} |2015), and

named entity recognition, e.g., (Nadeau and Sekine
[2007). Classification can be performed at many

levels: word, phrase, sentence, snippet (e.g., tweets,
reviews), articles (e.g., news articles), and others.
The number of classes usually ranges from a few
to nearly 100. Methodologically, a classification
model can be supervised, semi-supervised, and
unsupervised. An exhaustive survey is beyond the
scope of this paper. Here we briefly review short
text classification and highlight work that classifies
scientific articles.

Bag of words (BoWs) is one of the most
commonly used representations for text classification,

an example being keyphrase extraction
2016} 2018). BoW represents text

as a set of unordered word-level tokens, without
considering syntactical and sequential information.
TF-IDF is commonly used as a measure of

importance (Baeza- Yates and Ribeiro-Neto}|1999).

Pre-extracted topics (e.g., LDA) have also been

Subject Category Classification

used to represent documents before supervised
classification (Llewellyn et al.|/2015).

Recently, word embeddings (WE) have been used
to build distributed dense vector representations for
text. Embedded vectors can be used to measure
semantic similarity between words
[2013b). WE has shown improvements in semantic
parsing and similarity analysis, e.g.,
(2018) (2018). Other types of
embeddings were later developed for character level
embedding (Zhang et al.|[2015), phrase embedding
(Passos et al.||2014), and sentence embedding
fet al.| 2018). Several WE models have been trained
and distributed; examples are word2vec
OTS), Glove BOTS)
FastText [2017), Universal Sentence
Encoder ELMo
[2018), and BERT (Devlin et al. {2019). Empirically,
Long Short Term Memory (LSTM;
[and Schmidhuber|(1997)), Gated Recurrent Units
(GRU; (2014)), and convolutional
neural networks (CNN; {LeCun et al.|(1989)) have

achieved improved performance compared to other
supervised machine learning models based on

shallow features (Ren et al.| 2016).

Classifying SCs of scientific documents is
usually based on metadata, since full text is not
available for most papers and processing a large
amount of full text is computationally expensive.
Most existing methods for SC classification are
unsupervised. For example, the Smart Local
Moving Algorithm identified topics in PubMed
based on text similarity
2018) and citation information (van Eck and)
[2017). K-means was used to cluster
articles based on semantic similarity
(2017). The memetic algorithm, a type
of evolutionary computing(Moscato and Cotta}

[2003), was used to classify astrophysical papers
into subdomains using their citation networks.
A hybrid clustering method was proposed based
on a combination of bibliographic coupling and
textual similarities using the Louvain algorithm —
a greedy method that extracted communities from

large networks (Glanzel and Thijs} |2017). Another