pear in the source text; they fail at predicting
meaningful keyphrases with a slightly different se-
quential order or those that use synonyms. How-
ever, authors of scientific publications commonly
assign keyphrases based on their semantic mean-
ing, instead of following the written content in
the publication. In this paper, we denote phrases
that do not match any contiguous subsequence of
source text as absent keyphrases, and the ones
that fully match a part of the text as present
keyphrases. Table | shows the proportion of
present and absent keyphrases from the docu-
ment abstract in four commonly-used datasets,
from which we can observe large portions of ab-
sent keyphrases in all the datasets. The absent
keyphrases cannot be extracted through previous
approaches, which further prompts the develop-
ment of a more powerful keyphrase prediction
model.

Second, when ranking phrase candidates, pre-
vious approaches often adopted machine learning
features such as TF-IDF and PageRank. However,
these features only target to detect the importance
of each word in the document based on the statis-
tics of word occurrence and co-occurrence, and
are unable to reveal the full semantics that underlie
the document content.

Table 1: Proportion of the present keyphrases and
absent keyphrases in four public datasets

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dataset #Keyphrase % Present % Absent
Inspec 19,275 55.69 44.31
Krapivin 2,461 44.74 52.26
NUS 2,834 67.75 32.25
SemEval 12,296 42.01 57.99

 

 

To overcome the limitations of previous stud-
ies, we re-examine the process of keyphrase pre-
diction with a focus on how real human annotators
would assign keyphrases. Given a document, hu-
man annotators will first read the text to get a ba-
sic understanding of the content, then they try to
digest its essential content and summarize it into
keyphrases. Their generation of keyphrases relies
on an understanding of the content, which may not
necessarily use the exact words that occur in the
source text. For example, when human annota-
tors see “Latent Dirichlet Allocation” in the text,
they might write down “topic modeling” and/or
“text mining” as possible keyphrases. In addition
to the semantic understanding, human annotators

might also go back and pick up the most impor-
ant parts, based on syntactic features. For exam-
ple, the phrases following “we propose/apply/use”
could be important in the text. As a result, a better
keyphrase prediction model should understand the
semantic meaning of the content, as well as cap-
ure the contextual features.

To effectively capture both the semantic and
syntactic features, we use recurrent neural net-
works (RNN) (Cho et al., 2014; Gers and Schmid-
huber, 2001) to compress the semantic informa-
ion in the given text into a dense vector (i.e., se-
mantic understanding). Furthermore, we incorpo-
rate a copying mechanism (Gu et al., 2016) to al-
low our model to find important parts based on
positional information. Thus, our model can gen-
erate keyphrases based on an understanding of
the text, regardless of the presence or absence of
keyphrases in the text; at the same time, it does
not lose important in-text information.

The contribution of this paper is three-fold.
First, we propose to apply an RNN-based gen-
erative model to keyphrase prediction, as well
as incorporate a copying mechanism in RNN,
which enables the model to successfully pre-
dict phrases that rarely occur. Second, this is
the first work that concerns the problem of ab-
sent keyphrase prediction for scientific publica-
tions, and our model recalls up to 20% of absent
keyphrases. Third, we conducted a comprehen-
sive comparison against six important baselines
on a broad range of datasets, and the results show
that our proposed model significantly outperforms
existing supervised and unsupervised extraction
methods.

In the remainder of this paper, we first review
the related work in Section 2. Then, we elaborate
upon the proposed model in Section 3. After that,
we present the experiment setting in Section 4 and
results in Section 5, followed by our discussion in
Section 6. Section 7 concludes the paper.

 

2 Related Work

2.1 Automatic Keyphrase Extraction

A keyphrase provides a succinct and accurate
way of describing a subject or a subtopic in a
document. A number of extraction algorithms
have been proposed, and the process of extracting
keyphrases can typically be broken down into two
steps.

The first step is to generate a list of phrase can-