EIRINI PAPAGIANNOPOULOU AND GRIGORIOS TSOUMAKAS 45

 

{(xml), (automata), (firstord, logic), (express), (pebb!)

(monad, secondord, logic), (inf init, alphabet), (regist)}
The MR’s result set is given in the first box below, followed by its stemmed version in the second box. The words

that are both in the golden set and in the set of our candidates are highlighted with bold typeface:

 

{pebbles, mso, finite set, set, proof, strings, pebble automata, automata, positions, data values}

 

 

 

{(pebbl), (mso), (finit, set), (set), (proof), (string), (pebbl, automata), (automata), (posit), (data, valu)}

 

 

According to the exact match evaluation, the top-10 returned candidate keyphrases by MR include 2 True Posi-
tives (TPs), the unigram phrases pebbles and automata, 8 False Positives (FPs) and 6 False Negatives (FNs). Hence,

precision =0.20_ recall=0.25 Fy =0.22

However, partial match evaluation approach uses the stemmed set of words found in all golden keyphrases, i.e.:

{(xml), (automata), (firstord), (logic), (express), (pebb!),(monad), (secondord), (inf init), (alphabet), (regist)}
and the set of words found in all extracted keyphrases by MR, i.e.:

 

{(pebbl), (mso), (finit), (set), (proof), (string), (automata), (posit), (data), (valu)}

 

 

 

According to the partial match evaluation, the top-10 returned candidate keyphrases by MR include 2 TPs, pebbles
and automata, 8 FPs and 9 FNs. Hence,

precision =0.20__ recall=0.18 Fy, =0.19

So, it is quite usual in cases where there are unigram keyphrases as TPs and multiword keyphrases as FPs/FNs,
the exact match Fj-score to be higher than the partial match F,-score. Note that both evaluation approaches fail to
recognize as TP the unigram keyphrase mso which is an abbreviation of the multiword keyphrase monadic second-order
logic. Finally, in Appendix we give[AJan example where the partial match evaluation can be considered as harmful

compared to the strict exact match evaluation.

7 | CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE DIRECTIONS

Keyphrases are multi-purpose knowledge gems. They constitute a concise summary of documents that is extremely
useful both for human inspection and machine consumption, in support of tasks such as faceted search, document
classification and clustering, query expansion and document recommendation. Our article reviews the existing body of
work on keyphrase extraction and presents a comprehensive organization of the material that aims to help newcomers
and veterans alike navigate the large amount of prior art and grasp its evolution.

We present a large number of both unsupervised and supervised keyphrase extraction methods, including re-
cent deep learning methods, categorizing them according to their main features and properties, and highlighting their
strengths and weaknesses. We discuss the challenges that supervised methods face, namely the subjectivity that char-

acterizes the existing annotated datasets and the imbalance of keyphrases versus non-keyphrases. In addition, we