We present the results in Table 2 and split the analysis into two parts: one when model’s top prediction
matches the gold annotation in the data, denoted as GT @ 1 (Gold Truth@ 1) in Table 2a, and the other
when it doesn’t match the gold: N-GT@1 (Not-Gold Truth@ 1) in Table 2b. We see that not only are
the explanations from OxKBC preferred over rule mining for GT@1, but even for the predictions
for samples in N-GT@1, OXKBC gives a more probable explanation than rule mining. Note that
the workers are never told if the given fact is true or not. Table 3 lists some facts, where OXKBC
outperformed the explanations generated by rule mining and vice-versa.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fact Explanation from OXKBC Explanation from Rule Mining
(Academy Award for Best Sound Mixing, has
(Academy Award for (T4] (Academy Award for Best nomination for, On Golden Pond) and (On
te Sound Mixing, has nominee, 5
Best Sound Mixing, —_ as Golden Pond, was nominated for, Academy
Bi Willie D. Burton) and (Willie D. :
has nomination for, s Award for Best Cinematography) and
Burton, was an award nominee .
WarGames) (Academy Award for Best Cinematography, has
for, WarGames) 5d
nomination for, WarGames)
(The Last King of [12] (The Lives of Others, has (The Last King of Scotland, has actor, Forest
genre, Drama) and "The Last : . .
Scotland, has genre, . eos Whitaker) and (Forest Whitaker, won an award
Drama) King of Scotland” is similar'to for, Bird) and (Bird, has genre, Drama)
"The Lives of Others" , — ,
(47th Annual Gramm [T2] (50th Annual Grammy
‘Awards, had an an Awards, had an award category, (47th Annual Grammy Awards , is an instance
cate, -0 Gramm: Grammy Awards for Song of the of repeating event:, Grammy Awards) and (
ett fen Son a Year) and "47th Annual Grammy | Grammy Awards, category , Grammy Awards
the Year) € Awards" is similar to "50th for Song of the Year)
Annual Grammy Awards"
(Actor, is the [T2] (Musician, is the profession | (Actor, is the profession of, Henry Winkler) and
profession of, John of, John Lithgow) and "Actor" is (Henry Winkler, has profession, Writer) and
Lithgow) similar to "Musician" (Writer, is the profession of, John Lithgow)

 

Table 3: OXKBC was preferred to Rule Mining for first two facts, rule mining won in third fact, and
none of the explanations were accepted in the last example.

 

Fact

Explanation from OxKBC

 

(Sound Mixer, had some job

(Supervising Sound Editor, had some job associated with film, The

 

associated with film, The
Motorcycle Diaries)
(Composer, is the profession of,
Danny Elfman)
(2010 Winter Olympics, has a
participating country, Czech
Republic)

Motorcycle Diaries) and ("Sound Mixer" is similar to "Supervising
Sound Editor")
(Composer, is the profession of, John Kander) and (John Kander, is an
award co-nominee with, Danny Elfman)

 

 

(2002 Winter Olympics, has a participating country, Czech Republic) and
("2010 Winter Olympics" is similar to "2002 Winter Olympics")

 

 

 

 

Table 4: OXKBC explanations from N-GT@1 when the top prediction is correct in real world.

4.2.2 QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS OF EXPLANATIONS FOR INCORRECT PREDICTIONS

From Table 2b, we observe that workers prefer OXKBC’s explanations even when the prediction
of the model M is not marked as correct (N-GT@1). We randomly select 100 samples from N-
GT@1 and manually analyze the explanations generated by OXKBC. For 77 out of 100 samples,
OxKBC generated convincing explanations. On further investigation, we discovered that 52 out of
77 predictions were indeed correct in real-world but the model was penalized because the fact was

10