EDVARD GRIEG ix

bers three, four, five, six), which may be called A.
This is followed by a complementary or answer-
ing phrase in four measures (seven, eight, nine,
ten), phrase B, the tenth bar containing a tran-
sition leading back to a repetition of phrase A
(measures eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen). The
last four measures (fifteen, sixteen, seventeen,
eighteen) of this first division of the Poetic Tone
Pifure, beginning forte, con fuoco, with the F
major arpeggio, constitute a new phrase, C, de-
veloped out of the simple D major arpeggio fig-
ure in measure ten, and concluding in measure
eighteen with a cadence or resting place, marked
ff; on the chord and oétave of the tonic or fun-
damental key, E minor. Thus, the foregoing
section or melody of sixteen measures, following
the two introdu€tory measures, consists of two
pairs of phrases, A B, A C. Each pair of phrases
is called a period, and the two periods, taken to-
gether, constitute a melody.

Next comes a middle portion, of twenty-four
measures, constructed of phrases closely allied to
what has gone before. The first unit is a phrase
of four measures, almost exactly like A. It has,
however, a minor second (F-natural) in its scale
(measure two) instead of the major interval, as in
measure four of the first division,anda cadence in
E major instead of E minor, in its own fourth
measure. This four-measure phrase is repeated
with subtle changes (measures five, six, seven,
eight), and the next follow two longer groups of
eight measures each, developing the same gen-
eral material, and bringing the listener back to
arepetition (Tempo I) of the original sixteen-
measure melody, without change.

Tt will be seen that the musical ground plan
of this piece is quite simple, and the units of
design are small. Such is generally, though not
always, the case with Grieg’s pianoforte music.
Again, the marked rhythmic accentuation will
also be noticed. The rhythm that gives charac-
ter to the piece as a whole is that of measures
three and four, obtained by holding the first note
(G) for two beats, the F-sharp following on the
third and enduring for only one beat, while the
succeeding measure has six notes of equal time

value, lasting half a beat each. The remaining
two measures of phrase A are also definitely
marked, rhythmically, but it is the first two that
determine the hearer’s mental impression of this
musical unit. The melodic intervals are not dis-
tindtive, anywhere in the piece, except in mea-
sures seven, eight, nine, already mentioned. Har-
monically, there is nothing memorable in these
two early pages of Grieg’s well-filled album. The
composer has not hesitated to sound warring dis-
sonances,among them a D-sharp in the bass with
E-natural in the treble, unrelieved by any inter-
vening notes. But they do not seem to serve any
valuable purpose, except to carry out a certain
symmetry of contour in the lower voice.

The next of the Poetic Tone Pidures is a
square-cut, sharply accented piece in the cold
key-color of C minor. Unless played, as direéted,
con moto, this piece will sound rhythmically stiff.
The fifth of this group is the best known and
has animation, with the hint of charming way-
wardness that is one of Grieg’s most popular
qualities. The middle se@ion, after a hurried
climax, returns to the opening melody by way
of three effective measures of open fifths and
fourths, a characteristic bit of humor and good
spirits, There is a wintry bleakness in the last
of these Poetic Tone Pictures, enhanced by speed
and relieved by the wide range of dynamic vari-
ation prescribed by the composer, who knew
well how to gain considerable effects with eco-
nomy of means.

The first book of Lyric Pieces begins with
the familiar and graceful Arietta in E-flat major,
only twenty-three measures in length. This is
Grieg under a summer sky; the melody floats
onward with an effortless glide. It is a tender
little song, and simple withal. The Walsz, sec-
ond of the set, is a typical specimen of the
composer’s style. There are few notes, yet the
three-part harmony is not thin, and when a
fourth note is added, the effec is of surprising
fulness. It was after Grieg had seen a perform-
ance of “ Macbeth” that he composed the Watch-
man’s Song. Its measured pace is interrupted by
uneasy arpeggio passages, which arouse a fanfare