EDVARD

x

SKED for a concise estimate of Edvard
Grieg as a composer, the late Anton Seidl,
choosing his words, once wrote this sentence:
“Grieg is a painter of beautiful aquarelles.” The
famous conduétor had done much to popularize
the Norwegian’s music in America, and his char-
aéterization was written with a regard almost
affectionate, At the same time, Mr. Seidl’s words
implied a clear view of the nature and scope of
the composer’s genius. Grieg’s musical paint-
brush was not a broad one, nor did he often
work in the large style. But within his range,
and at his best, especially in the years before he
was forty, Grieg was not wanting in vigor or
originality. More than that, his music is of
strongly marked physiognomy, and the greater
part of it bespeaks a genuine and a lovable soul.
He developed early the power of creating mel-
odies that were expressive and of a beautiful sim-
plicity, and these he set in a frame of admirably
appropriate harmonies. Quite aside from any
question of technical proficiency in the handling
of musical material (and Grieg has had many
superiors in this art), his music bears the stamp
of a positive and a singularly winning person-
ality; it is distinGively and unmistakably his
own. Chiefly, it bases its almost universal appeal
upon a secure foundation of folk song; it is art
music redolent of the folk quality.

As to the Norwegian nationalism that stimu-
lated and controlled the composer’s work, Grieg
came by it honestly, though he also carried in
his veins one part in eight of Scottish blood.
On his mother’s side, Edvard Grieg traced his
descent from Kjeld Stub, a noted seventeenth
century Scandinavian, at once cleric, warrior, and
man of science. Grieg’s paternal great-grand-
father, however, was a Scotchman of Aberdeen,
Alexander Greig, who migrated to Norway after
the battle of Culloden in 1746 had ended dis-
astrously the hopes of the Pretender. Settling
at Bergen, he changed the spelling of his name

GRIEG

to conform to Norwegian pronunciation, and
married a Norwegian wife. John Grieg, their son,
and Alexander, son of John, were both Bergen
merchants, who served also as British consuls.
Alexander Grieg married GesineJudith Hagerup,
a woman of artistic and musical talents, and their
son was Edvard Hagerup Grieg, born at Ber-
gen, June 15, 1843.

Musical precocity marked the boy Edvard,
and his mother found him an apt though not
a diligent pupil. When the lad was fifteen, the
violinist, Ole Bull, home from adventurous tour-
ing in America, advised that Edvard be sent to
the Leipzig Conservatory, and thither he went
in 1858. Four years of not wholly congenial
study left young Grieg weakened in health, but
deeply bent upon developing the national ele-
ment in his music. Niels Gade, with whom he
next studied, at Copenhagen, found him too
radically Norwegian, but luckily did not succeed
in checking this tendency. Richard Nordraak,
a kindred spirit, to whom Grieg dedicated the
admirable Humoresken of Op. 6, joined the
young composer in founding, in 1864, a Danish
society to make propaganda for the progressive
Scandinavian group. A maturer venture was the
Musical Union in Christiania, founded by Grieg
in 1867, and conducted by him until 1880. The
year 1867 sawalso his marriageto Nina Hagerup,
his cousin, who, as a sympathetic singer, helped
to make known his songs. Grieg was cordially
praised by the musical autocrat of his day, Franz
Liszt, in Rome in 1870. Two violin sonatas
and other considerable works had then already
been completed, and Grieg’s star was mounting
steadily higher. Henrik Ibsen’s invitation, in
1874, to write incidental music for his fantastic
drama, “Peer Gynt,” led Grieg to produce per-
haps the best work of his career—and he was
then barely past thirty.

Superlative popularity marked Grieg’s later
years. As composer, pianist, and conductor, he