EDVARD GRIEG

The sixth book of Lyric Preces has yielded
for the present volume a minuet, entitled Van-
ished Days, and a little piece, whose name, She
Dances, explains its nature. The theme of the
first one has character, but again Grieg has am-
plified to the point of tenuity. The second piece
shows the same tendency toward exhaustion of
theme long before the final bar is reached.

Proceeding to the seventh book, the French
Serenade leaves us in doubt how far Grieg could
apprehend the spirit of Gallic elegance. Brookiet,
with its theme based on a running figure, de-
mands both speed and lightness of touch. Vision
is brief and not individual. More interesting is
Fourneying Homeward, its quadruple beat sug-
gesting the fall of horses’ hoofs on a hard road,
while the mood is of joyous expectation. A lovely
folk melody provides its middle division. Out
of Book VIII have been taken the Ballad and
Wedding Day at Troldhaugen, the latter being
Grieg’s hospitable home on the fjord near Bergen.
The guests honored by this piece of occasional
music were evidently loath to leave—the length
of the piece hints at a prolonged affair, just a
little tedious. :

Neither Grandmother's Minuet nor At thy Feet,
from Book IX, invite comment. Evening in the
Mountains, however, is a composition of dis-
tin@tion. Grieg establishes the atmosphere of the
music by a long sustained note, and gives it local
charaéter by the piping of a single voice, as of
a shepherd alone. One thinks of Tristan, and
also of Giovanni Segantini’s drawings and paint-
ings made in the high Alps, with their spacious
air and their great silences. It is said that the
Swiss peasants’ hushed voices are due to long
sojourning in such lofty solitudes. Refreshingly
rich in its harmony and of a tender melodic
strain is At the Cradle, also from Book IX. And
it is not too long.

The tenth and last book of Lyric Pieces sup-
plies the Kobo/d, another characteristic bit of fairy

New York, Fune 15, 1910.

xiii
lore. It is in Grieg’s familiar idiom, and is a good
specimen of his ingenious musical picture-mak-
ing. Puck is at the height of his mischief, when
there sounds a signal for departure, in the form
ofa long held B-flat, following abruptly the
chords of E major. Then come a hasty flight
and disappearance. Another Halling is bracketed
with this, but it will suffer from comparison.

The Grieg manner may be studied in the
Scherzo Impromptu, Op. 73, No. 2, while No. 3
of the same set, 4 Ride at Night, marked allegro
misterioso, exhales adventurous suggestion, with
a reminder at times of the horse’s footsteps.
There is a hint of the “ Doppelganger” mood in
the chromatic oétaves, but it is Grieg’s own—
and it endures longer than is necessary to con-
vey the desired impression. The study entitled
Homage to Chopin betokens the Norwegian’s
very real admiration for the Polish genius. In
the final Mountaineer’s Song we hear once more
the shepherd piping.

As a final word, let it be suggested that the
music in this volume be taken in reasonably
restricted portions at a single sitting. Like most
creative artists, Grieg had his limitations of
thought and style. His later work is, on the
whole, inferior to that of his first five books of
Lyric Pieces, but nearly all of his music bears
his unmistakable imprint. His short-phrased
themes, his alternation of rhythms, his effective
use of empty fourths and fifths, his ingenious
modulations by means of unison passages, his
free employment of bleak dissonances, his almost
always likable guidance of his melody from the
seventh down to the fifth of a scale, the cool
beauty of his harmonies, —these are some deter-
mining marks of Edvard Grieg’s musical style.
There is much repetition, and often little devel-
opment, in the sonata form sense, yet before
you have played a dozen measures, in any of
these short pieces, you are aware that the com-
poser has made the idea his own—and yours.