EDVARD GRIEG xi

o@aves in the right hand, leading to the return
of the gentle crooning melody. Here he has
worked to a real culmination, without overstep-
ping the character of the piece. Another Fo/k
Song follows, in the favorite key of E minor,
with a sunny middle episode in G major.

Passing over the next piece, which lacks dis-
tindtion, we come to the first of several settings
written for the Halling, one of the Norwegian
national dances. The Halling is for a single
dancer and is in-% time. The sturdy peasants
admire most of all the dancer who, as the Hall-
ing grows more and more animated, can leap
into the air and strike the rafters with his foot.
The Spring Dance, of which one of Griep’s sev-
eral musical settings follow here, is for a man
and a woman, and its joyous movement, in triple
rhythm, is good to see. This music is in char-
acter, but not in any way remarkable. Nor is
the waltz, which is next in the series, an inspired
piece of work. Last of Book II of the Lyric Pieces
is the Canon, which is melodically worth while as
well as technically ingenious,

Op. 41 comprises transcriptions by the com-
poser of a group of his own best known songs.
The Cradle Song, in five sharps, will repay the
exploring reader. Little Haakon loses measurably
in this pianoforte version, and J Love Thee will
probably also give most satisfaction, in this form,
to those not familiar with the terse beauty of
the original song.

In his third book of Lyric Pieces, Op. 43,
Grieg is close to his apogee. The five numbers
from this set included in the present volume all
deserve special mention. Butterfly is an example
of fleetness and the light touch. Lonely Wanderer
is a concentrated mood piéture, filled with the
regretful melancholy implied in the title. Lise
Bird is an echo of the forest, and not wanting in
hints of its mystery and solitude. There are un-
dertones of foreboding in this little piece. Erotic
is persuasive but not commanding. It lacks the
fire and passion that would win a woman.

To the Spring is one of the most deservedly
popular of Grieg’s short pieces. It has indu-
bitable grace and tenderness, and its left-hand

melody, afterward heard in octaves in the right
hand, must sing with sustained yet never insistent
tones, to draw down into material form this del-
icate piece of imagination. Rhythmically it is fe-
licitous, and harmonically it is happily contrived.
This is one of Grieg’s approaches to a mood of
thrilled ecstasy; it is a work of genuine imagina-
tion and feeling.

Iv
From the two Peer Gynt suites, four excerpts
are given here: The Death of Ase (pronounced
“O©-za,” with O as in home); Anitra’s Dance and
In the Hall of the Mountain King, from the first
group, and Solvejg’s Song from the second. Peer
Gynt (pronounced “ Pair Gant”) is Henrik Ib-
sen’s allegoric and legendary personage, who,
after a wild youth as a braggart and adventurous
Norwegian peasant, passes in foreign countries
through phases of selfishness and grandiloquent
self-deception, until at the end, having sought
to balance deliberate evil by hypocritical good, he
is threatened with a return to the melting-pot
of the Button Molder, to have his neutral and
wasted identity merged into the general mass.
Peer is a conscienceless rascal, but he is not with-
out sympathetic qualities. Ase is his old mother,
whose life he has helped to harass with his fro-
ward doings. After robbing a bridegroom of his
bride, and carrying her on his back to a moun-
tain fastness, Peer has had a price set upon his
head. Exiled thus, he has curious adventures.
Looking amorously upon a daughter of the King
of the Mountain Trolls, a magic and mischiev-
ous folk, Peer is all but ready to swear allegiance
to their band, but refuses when told such an
oath is irrevocable. Seeking to escape from their
domain, Peer is chased by these maleficent imps,
with a poor chance for his life, until the ring-
ing of far-away church bells, by his mother and
Solvejg, the one woman who believes in him,
causes the Mountain King’s hall to vanish and
sets Peer free.

Solvejg ascends the mountain to share his soli-
tude, but Peer leaves her standing before his hut,
being unwilling to face her with an evil con-