xii

science. By night, he steals back to his old home
in the valley, to find his mother dying. To soothe
her passing, and to salve his own conscience,
Peer harnesses a chair by her bed and pretends
to be driving her to the castle gates guarded by
St. Peter. With singular pathos, the imaginary
ride is brought toa halt by the weary passenger's
release. We next come upon Peer Gynt, gray,
rich, and accompanied by a quartet of globe-
trotting tourists, as a leisurely wanderer in North
Africa. Anitra, daughter of a sheik, dances for
him, and he has adventures too many to recount,
until, broken in health and purse, he fares back
to Norway, and at last finds refuge with the
faithful and patient Solvejg, who had waited for
him from youth to middle age, in serene confi-
dence of his return.

The Death of Ase is Grieg at his best. So simple
are the two four-measure phrases out of which its
two pages are built, that one may easily under-
rate the creative energy required toproducethem.
Strangely haunting is this accompaniment to the
waning moments of the weary Norwegian woman.
Not a note too many has Grieg woven into this
musical pattern. It is a masterpiece in miniature.
In playing it, the slurs binding together each
phrase within itself must be carefully observed.
If it be keptin mind that The Death of Ase was
written originally for string orchestra, the neces-
sary union of smoothness and accentuation will
be readily understood. The tempo should not be
too slow, yet there must be no sense of haste.

Anitra’s Dance is usually played too fast. The
guilefal Arab girl at first allowed Peer Gynt to
believe that she took him for a prophet, but pre-
sently undeceived him, after she had lightened
his purse. Her dance was of tropical languor, and
Grieg came as near to suggesting this as his cool
northern nature would permit. It is music of
exquisite grace. In the Hall of the Mountain King
has been called a bit of musical claptrap. It is,
however, in the true sense, picture music, writ-
ten for the theatre, to heighten the tension of a
dramatic episode, and in this it succeeds admira-
bly. A single idea, repeated under all manner of
harmonic guises, and with increasing stringency

EDVARD GRIEG

of rhythmic accent, sums up its musical content.
Begun slowly, as the venomous hill trolls start
their cat-and-mouse game with the hapless Peer,
the pace grows faster and faster, ending in a furi-
ous rout. It is amazingly effective in the orches-
tral version.

After Peer Gynt’s futile attempt to carry off
Anitra, which left him convinced that women
were a worthless crew, Ibsen’s drama ironically
shows us the devoted Solvejg,now a middle-aged
woman, fair-haired and comely, sitting alone with
her spinning-wheel in the sunshine, before her
hut in the forest. She sings:

“May be both the winter and spring will pass by,

And the next summer, too, and the whole of the year;

But thou wilt come one day, that know I full well;

And I will await thee, as I promised of old.”

This is set to Norwegian folk music of pristine -
beauty and simplicity.

v

From the fourth book of Lyric Pieces is taken
another Spring Dance in G major with a full
complement of fifths and octaves. Wholesome
music this, and aglow with vigor. Out of Op.
52, another book of song transcriptions, comes
Mother Sorrow, which is over-elaborated and has
lost some of its original potency. Solvejg’s Song
has already been touched upon, in referring to
the Peer Gynt music. Grotesquerie that is ex-
pressive and appropriate is found in March of
the Dwarfs, from the fifth book of Lyric Pieces.
The % rhythm, with its great number of ac-
cented staccato notes, calls up effectively a vision
‘of the precision and nimbleness of the little peo-
ple. The tender cantabile theme that provides
contrast bears an intervallic likeness to one of the
Humoresken. In the same set is the Notturno,a
composition of elegiac mood, containing a lovely
melody. Be/ Ringing, or“ Bell Voices,” as its title
might have been translated, would have gained
by brevity. It is at best a musical oddity, seek-
ing to imitate, by a long series of open fifths, the
confused jarring tones of a chime of bells. To
get any effect in performing it, variety must be
obtained by strongly marked dynamicgradations.