viii
became a familiar and beloved figure in many
European capitals. During the autumn of his
life, which set in earlier than with most men,
Grieg and his wife had their summer home at
Troldhaugen, on a fjord near Bergen, surrounded
by a noble expanse of northern scenery.

The clear voice of the North speaks out of the
best of Edvard Grieg’s music. Now fresh and in-
vigorating, now tender and of evanescent beauty,
and again keen and shrill as the north wind
itself, or bleak as a field of melting ice, the Nor-
wegian’s musical speech is attuned to a land re-
mote and of strongly marked climate and topo-
graphy. In the natural expression of a northern
race, there is an underlying and often hardly con-
cealed melancholy. When summer sunshine spar-
kles brightest on the woods and waters of Nor-
way, it is still not easy to forget the colder skies
that are soon to resume their sway. The very
perfection of the short period of summer carries
its warning note of grim days and frosty nights
to come. Such is the impression made by Grieg’s
music, especially that for the pianoforte. The en-
during heat of lower musical latitudes finds no
place in it—the song of ardent and devastating
passion is scarcely sounded. But the naive hon-
esty of the peasant northerner, left undisturbed
by the traffic of nations that ebbs and flows across
Central Europe, is voiced by Grieg with faithful
sincerity; his is music to be liked and to be
trusted. This is to say once more that it is rooted
deeply in the folk spirit. Grieg knew at first hand
the fertile valleys, the deep fjords, the rugged
mountains, and the rushing streams of his home
land. He loved well every aspect of its haunting
beauty and aloofness, out of which had gradually
grown the folk spirit that gave shape and color
to the national songs and dances. It was as though
the same seed that had come slowly to fruition in
the popular heart had implanted itself in the
stimulating soil of Grieg’s musical nature, and
had blossomed there with corresponding rapid-
ity and profusion. It is not every composer, now-
adays, that can put himself under the primal in-
fluences lying at the foundation of his country’s
folk song, and still less often is there a nature

EDVARD GRIEG

simple and responsive as Grieg’s, to fuse these
elements into music that is at once authentically
national and artistically excellent. So this man,
besides earnestly studying Norwegian popular
melodies and frankly utilizing them as thematic
material, created, so to say, a folk music of his
own. It was his able and loving interpretation of
Norway and the North that won Grieg his en-
viable place in nineteenth century music.

Bo 4

Gauge published ten books of Lyric Pieces for
the Pianoforte,and the present volume draws from
all of them, besides including four of the Poetic
Tone Pidtures, two Album Leaves, one of the Im-
provisations on Norwegian Folk Songs, a group of
transcriptions by the composer of some of his
own best known songs, excerpts from both the
Peer Gynt suites, several of the Jmpressions or
Mood Pidfures, and other short pianoforte pieces.

The opening piece in the present volume is,
appropriately enough, Op. 1, No. 1. Not many
famous composers can afford to exhibit their
first numbered work, but Grieg’s modest Kia-
vierstick in D major cuts a passable figure. Grieg
himself, referring to his closing days at the Leip-
zig Conservatory in 1862, once wrote: “I played
some pianoforte pieces of my own; they were
lame produdtions enough, and I still blush to-day
that they appeared in print as Op. 1; but it is
a fact that I had an immense success, and was
called for several times.”

Of the half dozen Poetic Tone Piures, Op. 3,
four are included here. At once we are in a clearer
atmosphere, revealing familiar elements of Grieg’s
musical landscape. The first piece, in E minor,
sounds a note of distinétion in its alternating
triple and double rhythms, in measures seven,
eight, and nine. There is a touch of cool and ex-
otic beauty here, and one welcomes its repeti-
tion, after the innocent diversion of the middle
section has given place to the returning tempo
primo, The construétion of this little piece is
typical of many that follow. After two introduc-
tory measures, there begins in the right hand a
phrase extending through four measures (num-