x EDVARD GRIEG

of trumpets. After this not very alarming inter-
mezzo, which a note in the score entitles “Spir-
its of the Night,” the march-like tread of the
watchman is resumed. It is naively simple. A
more natural expression is found in the gnomic
staccato tripping of the Fairy Dance, The Folk
Song, number five of the first set of Lyric Pieces,
is a melody of real beauty, skilfully harmonized,
without overloading. Passing over the Album
Leaf, we reach the National Song, which sounds
as though written for four-part men’s chorus,
and has a good deal of the broad general char-
acter demanded for a national anthem. Henry
T.. Finck, in his entertaining biography of Grieg,
quotes an account, written by the composer, of
a Christmas festival at the house of his friend
Bjornsterne Bjérnson, in Christiania, in 1868.
Grieg had just published this first book of Lyric
Pieces,and he played this Vater/ands/ied for the dis-
tinguished author. Bjérnson at once announced
that he would write a poem to it, and the next
day he reported that it was to be a song for all
young Norwegians. “But,” he said, “at the be-
ginning there is something that has so far baffled
me. A quite definite ‘Wortklang.’ I feel that
the melody demands it, yet it eludes me. But it
will come.”

“The next morning,” writes Grieg, “while I
was sitting in my garret room, giving a lesson to
a young lady, some one in the street pulled the
bell cord as though he were trying to tear out
the whole thing. Then there was a clattering as
if a wild horde were breaking in, and a voice
shouting, ‘Forward! Forward! Hurrah! I have
it! Forward!’ My pupil trembled like an aspen
leaf. My wife, in the adjoining room, was almost
frightened out of her wits. But when, a moment
later, the door was opened, and Bjérnson stood
there, joyous and beaming like a sun, there was
great glee. And then we listened to the beautiful
poem just completed.”

It

Two Album Leaves, taken from Op. 28, follow,
and the second one, in A major, is thoroughly

characteristic and of a delicate yet lively charm,

Very individual are the A minor measures near
the end of the second page, with their dotted
eighth and sixteenth notes in writhing rhythm.

Second to few of Grieg’s short pianoforte
pieces is the Improvisation upon a Norwegian Folk
Song, included in this collection as number one
of Op. 29. The song itselfis of singular beauty,
and is burdened with a truly northern melan-
choly, although, for the purposes of his art form,
Grieg lets a shaft of sunlight illumine its final
measure. With the first page of this music be-
fore us, we can trace the original outline of this
sorrowful song of Scandinavia, set in the key of
A minor. The introduétory measures suggest the
preliminary flourish of a peasant’s fiddle, and
then begins the mournful lay of the singer. The
first phrase is set forth with the left hand, in
measures six, seven, eight, nine, with the utmost
simplicity, but with genuine eloquence. This is
immediately repeated, with growing insistence,
by both hands in unison (measures ten, eleven,
twelve, thirteen). The second period of themelody
falls within measures fourteen and fifteen, again
in the left hand, while the completing phrase of
the song occupies measures nineteen and twenty,
which round out the page. The harmonization
is consistent with the straightforward chara@ter of
this appealing national utterance. There follows
a staccato variation and then one in -= time,
both in the sombre key of A minor, after which
the original 3 melody is again proclaimed, this
time in enriched harmony and in o@aves. It
mounts to a dramatic climax and then dies away,
in an arpeggiated A major chord. Nothing more
sincere or more saturated with the northern spirit
could be asked.

The second book of Lyric Pieces opens with
the tender Berceuse, which retains its charm in
spite of being hackneyed. It is a good example
of Grieg’s harmonic structure, and of his skill in
delaying a climax until the psychic moment ; note
the increasing tension of the last line on the sec-
ond page of this little score, and the upper line
ofits third page. Note, too, how ingeniously the
composer has relieved this tension by graduated
steps, in the four measures containing descending