IEEE Access:

S. Banerjee et al.: Physically Secure Lightweight Anonymous User Authentication Protocol for loT

 

I. INTRODUCTION

We live in the age of information and a significant portion
of the information is derived from the innumerable Internet
connected smart devices and sensors that make up the Inter-
net of Things (IoT). It is projected that by the year 2020, the
number of IoT devices will approach fifty billion [1]. This
exponential growth in popularity of loT devices, partly driven
by the cultural shift of preference of smart (Internet enabled)
consumer appliances, exposes a huge attack surface for the
adversaries to exploit the information. Without adequate ad-
dressable of the concern regarding the security and privacy
of the vast amount of sensitive data that is expected to flow
through these IoT networks, popular consumer deployment
of these technologies will be untenable [2]. The economic
potential alone provides the impetus to develop robust au-
thentication mechanism for IoT architecture. Fig.[I]describes
a generalized IoT architecture.

The authors in [3] defined the objectives of IoT that bridges
between the physical world and the computer-based systems
unlocking great economic welfare, accuracy, and efficiency
with minimal human action. Through this definition, loT
subsumes the wireless sensor networks (WSNs) domain. The
authentication problem in IoT architecture is quite similar to
the problems addressed for WSNs. Thus, the lessons learned
developing anonymous authentication schemes for WSNs
carry over to the IoT architecture. However, one difference
between a typical IoT device and a typical WSN sensor is
that generally the loT device is more complex and expensive.
Consequently, it is quite conceivable that an loT device can
have replaceable subsystems. The current standard threat
model (defined in Section [-Bp ensures that the stolen cre-
dentials from one system cannot be utilized to compromise
the security of unrelated devices. But, in light of reusable
modular IoT devices, a new attack must also be considered,
such as impersonation of compromised devices. An adver-
sary can extract the credentials from a physically captured
smart device and using these credentials the adversary can
impersonate the captured smart devices. As the users and
gateway nodes will use the very same credentials to verify
the identity of the device, this impersonating device cannot
be also detected. In this scenario, even if the rest of the
network is not compromised, the user who connects to the
spurious devices will expose him/herself to the adversary.
To get around a similar problem of stolen user credentials,
a widely accepted approach is to incorporate user biometric
into the authentication scheme. Analogously, we need to
employ some sort of device biometric. Physically Unclonable
Functions (PUFs) support such a functionality. In this paper,
we present a novel physically secure lightweight anonymous
authentication protocol for loT using PUFs.

 

A. NETWORK MODEL

In this paper, we follow a similar network model to that
presented in ]. The IoT architecture is composed of dis-
joint sub-networks consisting of multiple oT smart devices
operating as sensors or actuators, that are connected over

 

2

the public Internet. The smart devices are accessed through
their respective gateway node (G'W N) over a heterogeneous
network. The authorized users, prior to enjoying services of
a smart device (SD), must register with the corresponding
GWN. The registered mobile users (/Us) can mutually
authenticate with a smart device SD through the GW N in
order to negotiate a session key for accessing the device real-
time data. A standard security requirement for authentication
is that it must support anonymity and intractability for both
MU and SD Bj.

B. THREAT MODEL

The authors in [3] defined the security requirements and
also a threat model related to loT ecosystems. In our work,
we adhere to the broadly accepted Dolev-Yao (DY) threat
model [6]. Under DY-threat model, an adversary .A will have
complete control over the communication media. Thus, A
can eavesdrop upon, alter, delete and even forge messages
that are transmitted through the communication media. Ad-
ditionally, it is assumed that through power analysis attacks
(7, A can extract the sensitive data stored in a lost or
stolen smart card. Furthermore, it is within A’s capacity to
physically capture some IoT smart devices as the loT devices
can be deployed in some unattended environment, such as in
some IoT applications including healthcare and surveillance,
and A can extract the credentials stored in those captured
devices. We work under the assumption that the GW Ns are
being physically secured under locking systems and thus,
the GW Ns are considered to be trusted entities in the loT
environment [8].

This proposed scheme is also based on the CK-adversary
model [9]. The CK-adversary model is a stronger threat
model and it is considered as the current de facto standard
in modeling key-exchange protocols {10}. Under the CK-
adversary model, the adversary A, in addition to all capabili-
ties of the adversary under the DY model, can compromise
secure information like session state, private and session
keys. Thus, the key-exchange protocols need to guarantee
that in the event of ephemeral (short-term) secret leakage,
the effect on the security of session keys established among
the communicating entities in an authenticated key-exchange
protocol should be minimal is

C. ORGANIZATION OF THE PAPER

The organization of the paper is as follows. We present the
theoretical background relevant to the work in Section [IT] A
short review of the relevant authentication schemes from the
existing literature is presented in Section [Ml] The proposed
scheme is presented in|[V|with the detailed description of all
the phases. In sien ty we provide the rigorous security
analysis of the proposed scheme through the formal security
analysis and verification using ROR model and AVISPA ver-
ification) tool and also the informal analysis. We then present
a comparative study showcasing the strength of the proposed
scheme in Section[VI] with related existing schemes. A simu-
lation study for the practical impact of the proposed scheme

VOLUME 7, 2019