IEEE Access:

S. Banerjee et al.: Physically Secure Lightweight Anonymous User Authentication Protocol for loT

 

important issue. The authors in [14] recommended the fuzzy
extractor method for this purpose. The fuzzy extractor is
compromised of two methods, namely 1) probabilistic gen-
eration function Gen(-) and 2) deterministic re-production
function Rep(-), that are defined below.

¢ Gen: For a challenge-response pair, say PUF(C;) =
Res;, Gen(-) outputs a tuple comprising of a (secret)
key R; and helper data hd;, that is, Gen(Res;) = (Ri,
hd;).

« Rep: Given a PUF output Res‘, Rep(-) can recover the
original secret key R; with the help of the helper data
hd; provided the the Hamming distance between the
original PUF output Res; and current PUF output Res’
does not exceed a pre-defined error tolerance threshold
value et. Thus, Rep( Res), hd;) = Ri.

One of the estimations on error tolerance threshold values

provided by Cheon et al. is provided as follows. If the

Hamming distance between the original PUF output Res;

and current PUF output Res/ is T and the number of bits
a

in input string is inp, then et = fae

 

Ill. LITERATURE SURVEY

Lamport introduced a seminal on remote user authen-
tication in 1981. Later, in the works by several other au-
thors in {18}, [19], the concepts of mutual authentica-
tion, smart-card based authentication, user anonymity were
introduced, which became the standard requirements for
later authentication schemes. Wong et al. proposed a
hash-based lightweight user authentication scheme for the
resource-constrained wireless sensor networks (WSNs). Das
[22] presented an authentication scheme for the resource-
constrained WSNs. However, the schemes [21], [22] were
vulnerable to several attacks as identified and improved upon
by the authors in

Madhusudan and Mittal [26] identified that user anonymity
is one of the ten desirable attributes for an ideal password
authentication scheme. Turkanovic et al. discussed WSN
as a component of IoT and pointed out that user anonymity
and un-traceability are the widely considered integral re-
quirements for authentication schemes in WSN. Alqasen [28]
concluded that owing to the diverse and heterogeneous nature
of IoT, specific investigation into the security challenges for
IoT architecture is also necessary.

Granjal et al. [29] identified “privacy, anonymity, liability
and trust” as fundamental for the social acceptance of most
of the future IoT applications. Mineraud et al. [30] analyzed
malwares and highlighted inherent design flaws in the emerg-
ing IoT infrastructure and its associated security challenges.
Makhdoom et al. BI], while discussing the threats to IoT,
identified that user anonymity vis-a-vis id management as the
key security and privacy challenges. Thus, user anonymity
and un-traceability are necessary requirements for designing
an authentication scheme for loT environment.

Jeong et al. proposed a “One-Time Password (OTP)”
based approach for user authentication in smart home
environment. Unfortunately, this scheme fails to assure

 

4

mutual authentication, user anonymity, and untracability.
Hunumanathappa et al. also presented a pass-phrase
based approach to ensure device attestation during user au-
thentication for ubiquitous computing devices.

Santoso et al. [34] proposed a user authentication scheme
for smart homes using “Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC)”
technique. However, this scheme fails in ensuring anonymity
and untracability [8]. Porambage et al.[B5] designed a
scalable authentication protocol suitable for heterogeneous
resource-constrained WSNs. Turkanovic et al. [27]] also pre-
sented a computationally efficient scheme for authentication
in WSNs. Chang and Le [36] proposed two schemes for user
authentication: 1) the first one is based on bitwise XOR and
hash operations, and 2) the second scheme additionally uses
ECC apart from bitwise XOR and hash operations to provide
high security. Unfortunately, Das et al. demonstrated
that both the schemes were vulnerable to several known at-
tacks, including man-in-the-middle, offline password guess-
ing and replay attacks. Wazid er al. [5]] also observed that the
scheme [27] was vulnerable to known attacks like privileged
insider, offline password guessing, user impersonation. They
proposed a lightweight authenticated key management proto-
col for a generic IoT network.

Jie et al. (38) proposed an RFID based multilayer archi-
tecture for smart homes. Song ef al. [39] studied (38) and
observed the certificate authority in smart devices were too
computationally expensive for practical applications. As an
alternative, they presented an authentication scheme based on
hash functions and chaotic systems. Challa er al. [4] designed
an authentication scheme intended for loT deployment ap-
plying ECC signatures. Gope and Hwang presented
another lightweight scheme for user authentication in real-
time WSN. However, their scheme does not support sensor
node anonymity.

Amin et al. [41] presented a user authentication protocol
for distributed cloud computing environment composed of
IoT devices. However, Challa et al. and Li et al.
demonstrated several security pitfalls in the scheme [41],
such as privileged-insider and impersonation attacks. Apart
from these, Amin et al.’s scheme fails to guarantee some
important requirements like user anonymity and forward
secrecy properties.

Dhillon er al. [44] presented a multi-factor remote user
authentication scheme for loT environment. Chuang et al.
classified continuous authentication protocols for IloT
into user-to-device model and device-to-device model, and
presented a lightweight continuous authentication protocol
for device-to-device authentication in IoT. Unfortunately, the
schemes of Dhillon ef al. and Chuang et al. fail to
provide user and sensing device anonymity, respectively, and
both also fail to satisfy untraceability property.

Zhou et al. proposed an anonymous authentication
scheme using only hash function and XOR operations. Un-
fortunately, their scheme is vulnerable to replay attack, and it
also fails to preserve forward secrecy goal. The authors in
presented a detailed survey on various authentication

 

VOLUME 7, 2019