IEEE Access:

S. Banerjee et al.: Physically Secure Lightweight Anonymous User Authentication Protocol for loT

 

100

80

60

40

20

throughput (bytes per sec.)

12 3 4 5 6
scenarios

FIGURE 9: Throughput (bytes per second)

 

end-to-end delay (sec)

 

 

1092 3 4 5 6 7 8
scenarios

FIGURE 10: End-to-end delay in seconds

 

 

 

end-to-end delay (sec)

 

1 92 3 4 5 6 7 8
scenarios

FIGURE 11: Packet Delivery Ratio

Packet Loss Rate

 

 

 

scenarios

FIGURE 12: Packet Loss Rate (no of packets/seconds)

A. IMPACT ON NETWORK THROUGHPUT

In Figure pl we plot the network throughput along the y-
axis and different scenarios are along with the x-axis. The
throughput is calculated by the expression (v, x |p|)/Ts5,
where T;5, , and |p| represent the total time in seconds, the
number of received packets and its size, respectively. Form
Figure [9] we observed that the network throughput increases
with the number of messages exchanged.

VOLUME 7, 2019

B. IMPACT ON END-TO-END DELAY

In Figure [10] we plot the end-to-end delay along the y-axis
and different scenarios along the x-axis. The end-to-end de-
lay is formulated by the expression ea (Trev; -Tsna;)/ Ups
where Vp ,T-cy, and Tyna, represent the total number of
packets, the time needed for receiving and sending a data
packet 7, respectively. We also observe that the end-to-end
delay increases with the number of transmitted messages but
then decreases. This can be attributed to the increased number
of messages contributing to the network congestion which
leads to packet loss.

C. IMPACT ON PACKET DELIVERY RATIO

In Figure fy] we plot the packet delivery ratio along the
y-axis and different scenarios along the x-axis. The packet
delivery ratio is formulated by the expression 1/v,, where
1, and v, represent the total number of packets transmitted
and received, respectively. We also observe that the packet
delivery ratio in initially low and steady, but with the growth
in the number of transmitted messages, it degrades quickly.
This can be attributed to the increased number of messages
contributing to network congestion and channel saturation.

D. IMPACT ON PACKET LOSS RATE

In Figure [12] we plot the packet loss rate along the y-axis
and different scenarios along the x-axis. The packet loss rate
can be estimated by the expression (1% — v,)/Ts, where 1
and v, represent the total number of packets transmitted and
received and 7 represent the total time in seconds, respec-
tively. We also observe that the packet loss rate corresponds
to the packet delivery ratio (figure (ip. As discussed previ-
ously this is the result of an increased number of messages
contributing to the network congestion.

VII. CONCLUSION

In this article, we discussed the necessity of designing a
physically secure user authentication scheme for IoT envi-
ronment. As a solution to the raised problem, we presented
a novel physically secure lightweight anonymous user au-
thentication protocol for IoT using physically unclonable
functions. Through the rigorous analysis using the ROR
model, formal security verification under AVISPA tool and
informal security analysis, we demonstrated the security
& functionality features of the proposed scheme. We also
evaluated the practical impact of the proposed scheme using
NS3 simulation and presented a comparative summary to
demonstrate its potential to be deployed in a real-world
environment.

REFERENCES

[1] J. Gubbi, R. Buyya, S. Marusic, and M. Palaniswami, “Internet of things
(iot): A vision, architectural elements, and future directions,” Future gen-
eration computer systems, vol. 29, no. 7, pp. 1645-1660, 2013.

[2] L. Atzori, A. Tera, and G. Morabito, “The internet of things: A survey,”
Computer networks, vol. 54, no. 15, pp. 2787-2805, 2010.

[3] A. K. Das, S. Zeadally, and D. He, “Taxonomy and analysis of security
protocols for internet of things,’ Future Generation Computer Systems,
vol. 89, pp. 110-125, 2018.

15