IEEE Access

NMuliaiscipinary; Rapid Review Open Access Joural

 

Date of publication xxxx 00, 0000, date of current version xxxx 00, 0000.

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.XXXXXXX

Physically Secure Lightweight
Anonymous User Authentication
Protocol for Internet of Things using
Physically Unclonable Functions

SOUMYA BANERJEE’, VANGA ODELU?, ASHOK KUMAR DAS%, (Senior Member, IEEE),
SAMIRAN CHATTOPADHYAY’, (Senior Member, IEEE),
JOEL J. P. C. RODRIGUES‘, (Senior Member, IEEE), YOUNGHO PARK®, (Member, IEEE)

‘Department of Information Technology, Jadavpur University, Salt Lake City, Kolkata 700 098, India (e-mail: soumyaBanerjee @outlook.in,

samiraneju @ gmail.com)

*Department of Computer Science and Information Systems, Birla Institute of Technology & Science, Pilani Hyderabad Campus, Hyderabad 500 078, India
(e-mail: odelu.vanga @hyderabad.bits-pilani.ac.in)

’Center for Security, Theory and Algorithmic Research, International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad 500 032, India (e-mail:

iitkgp.akdas@ gmail.com, ashok.das @iiit.ac.in)

4NNational Institute of Telecommunications (Inatel), Santa Rita do sapucaf - MG, Brazil; Instituto de Telecomunicag6es, Portugal; Federal University of Piaut,
Teresina-PI, Brazil (e-mail: joeljr@ieee.org)

* School of Electronics Engineering, Kyungpook National University, Daegu 41566, Republic of Korea (e-mail: parkyh@knu.ac.kr)

Corresponding author: Youngho Park (parkyh @knu.ac.kr)

This work was supported in part by the Basic Science Research Program through the National Research Foundation of Korea funded by the
Ministry of Science, ICT & Future Planning (2017R1A2B 1002147), in part by the BK21 Plus project funded by the Ministry of Education,
Korea (21A20131600011); in part by Fundagdo para a Ciéncia e a Tecnologia through the UID/EEA/50008/2019 Project; in part by RNP,
with resources from MCTIC, Grant No. 01250.075413/2018-04, under the Centro de Referéncia em Radiocomunicagées — CRR project of
the Instituto Nacional de Telecomunicagées (Inatel), Brazil; and in part by Brazilian National Council for Research and Development
(CNPq) via Grant No. 309335/2017-5; and by the Brazilian National Council for Research and Development (CNPq) via Grant No.
201155/2015-0.

> ABSTRACT The emergence of the Internet of Things (IoT) as an umbrella for the Internet-enabled
devices for various applications, such as smart home, smart city, smart grid and smart healthcare, and their
immense economic potential necessitates a robust authentication mechanism that needs to be lightweight
and suitable for real-time applications. Moreover, the physical integrity of these devices cannot be assumed
as these are designed to be deployed in an unattended environment with minimum human supervision.
A user authentication mechanism for IoT, in addition to guaranteeing user anonymity and un-traceability
functionality requirements, must also be resistant to device physical capture and related misuses. In this
paper, we present a novel lightweight anonymous user authentication protocol for loT environment by
utilizing “cryptographic one-way hash function”, “Physically Unclonable Function (PUF)” and “bitwise
exclusive-OR (XOR)” operations. Through the broadly accepted Real-Or-Random (ROR) model-based
formal security analysis, formal security verification using the automated software verification tool,
namely “Automated Validation of Internet Security Protocols and Applications (AVISPA)” and also non-
mathematical (informal) security analysis, we show that the proposed scheme has the ability to resist various
well-known attacks that are crucial for securing loT environment. Through a detailed comparative study, we
show that the proposed scheme outperforms other existing related schemes in terms of computation and
communication costs, and also security & functionality features. Finally, a practical demonstration of the
proposed scheme using the NS3 simulation for the network performance parameters, such as “network
throughput” and “end-to-end delay’, has been provided.

> INDEX TERMS Internet of Things (oT), mutual authentication, key agreement, physically unclonable
function, security, AVISPA.

VOLUME 7, 2019