IEEE Access:

S. Banerjee et al.: Physically Secure Lightweight Anonymous User Authentication Protocol for loT

 

Samiran Chattopadhyay is currently working as
Professor in the Department of Information Tech-
nology, Jadavpur University, Kolkata, India. He
has received his Ph.D from Jadavpur University,
Kolkata, India, and Masters and Bachelors in com-
puter science and engineering from IIT Kharagpur,
India. He is having over 25 years of teaching expe-
rience at Jadavpur University, 4 years of industry
experience, and 12 years of technical consultancy
in the reputed industry houses. He has authored
over 110 papers in international journals and conferences.

 

Joel J. P. C. Rodrigues (S’01, M’06, SM’06)
is Professor at the National Institute of Telecom-
munications (Inatel), Brazil; senior researcher at
the Instituto de TelecomunicagGes, Portugal; and
visiting professor at the Federal University of Pi-
auf, Brazil. Prof. Rodrigues is the leader of the
Internet of Things research group (CNPq), Direc-
tor for Conference Development - IEEE ComSoc
Board of Governors, IEEE Distinguished Lecturer,
Technical Activities Committee Chair of the IEEE
ComSoc Latin America Region Board, the President of the scientific council
at ParkUrbis Covilh Science and Technology Park, the Past-Chair of the
IEEE ComSoc Technical Committee on eHealth, the Past-chair of the
IEEE ComSoc Technical Committee on Communications Software, Steering
Committee member of the IEEE Life Sciences Technical Community and
Publications co-Chair, and Member Representative of the IEEE Communi-
cations Society on the IEEE Biometrics Council. He is the Editor-in-Chief
of the International Journal of E-Health and Medical Communications and
an editorial board member of several top journals. He has authored or coau-
thored over 700 papers in refereed international journals and conferences, 3
books, and 2 patents. He had been awarded several Outstanding Leadership
and Outstanding Service Awards by IEEE Communications Society and
several best papers awards. He is member of the Internet Society, and a senior
member ACM and IEEE.

 

Yongho Park (M’17) received his BS, MS,

and PhD degrees in electronic engineering,

Kyungpook National University, Daegu, Korea in

1989,1991, and 1995, respectively. He is currently

a professor at the School of Electronics Engi-

neering, Kyungpook National University. In 1996-

2008, he was a professor at the School of Electron-

CA ics and Electrical Engineering, Sangju National

} University, Korea. In 2003-2004, he was a visiting

scholar at the School of Electrical Engineering and

Computer Science, Oregon State University, USA. His research interests
include computer networks, multimedia, and information security.

18 VOLUME 7, 2019