Noncommercial forest land.—Forest land (a)
withdrawn from timber utilization through
statute, ordinance, or administrative order but
which otherwise qualifies as commercial forest
land, and (b) incapable of yielding usable wood
products (usually sawtimber) because of ad-
verse site conditions, or so physically inacces-
sible as to be unavailable economically in the
foreseeable future.

Tree Species

Commercial species.—Includes species that
normally have value for commercial timber
products; excludes so-called weed or noncom-
mercial species such as blackjack oak, scrub
post oak, blue beech, and sourwood.

Softwoods.—Coniferous species, of which
the most numerous are loblolly pine (Pinus
taeda), shortleaf pine (P. echinata), and long-
leaf pine (P. palustris).

Hardwoods.—Broadleaved species, of which
the most numerous are the oaks (Quercus spp.)
and sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua).

Softwood Forest Types

Longleaf-slash pine.—Forests in which 50
percent or more of the stand is longleaf or
slash pine, singly or in combination. Common
associates include other southern pines, oak,
and gum.

Loblolly-shortleaf pine.—Forests in which
50 percent or more of the stand is loblolly pine,
shortleaf pine, or other southern yellow pines
excepting longleaf or slash pine, singly or in
combination. Common associates include oak,
hickory, and gum.

Oak-pine —Forests in which 50 percent or
more of the stand is hardwoods, usually up-
land oaks, but in which southern pines make
up 25-49 percent of the stand. Common asso-
ciates include gum, hickory, and yellow-poplar.

Hardwood Forest Types

Oak-hickory.—Forests in which 50 percent
or more of the stand is upland oaks or hickory,
singly or in combination, except where pines
comprise 25-49 percent in which case the stand
would be classified oak-pine. Common asso-
ciates include yellow-poplar, elm, maple, and
black walnut.

Oak-gum-cypress.—Bottom-land forests in
which 50 percent or more of the stand is tu-

pelo, blackgum, sweetgum, oaks, or southern
cypress, singly or in combination, except where
pines comprise 25-49 percent, in which case
the stand would be classified oak-pine. Com-
mon associates include cottonwood, willow,
ash, elm, hackberry, and maple.

Elm-ash-cottonwood.—Forests in which 50
percent or more of the stand is elm, ash, or
cottonwood, singly or in combination. Common
associates include willow, sycamore, beech, and
maple.

Diameter

D.b.h. (Diameter breast high).—Tree dia-
meter in inches, outside bark, measured at
4-Y% feet above ground.

Diameter class.—The 2-inch diameter classes
extend from 1.0 inch below to 0.9 inch above
the stated midpoint. Thus, the 12-inch class
takes in trees 11.0 inches to and including 12.9
inches d.b.h.

Class of Timber

Sawtimber trees.—Live trees of commercial
species, at least 9.0 inches d.b.h. in softwoods
and 11.0 inches d.b.-h. in hardwoods, and con-
taining at least a 12-foot merchantable butt
log—or, if the butt log is a cull, at least 50
percent of the gross sawlog volume is in
merchantable logs. To be merchantable, a log
must meet the following requirements:

(a) In softwoods, logs that have a minimum
6-inch small-end diameter inside bark
and that are at least one-third sound,
with sweep or crook not exceeding two-
thirds the small-end diameter.

(b) In hardwoods, logs that have a mini-
mum 8-inch small-end diameter inside
bark and that meet the specifications of
a standard lumber log or a tie and tim-
ber log.

Poletimber trees——Trees of commercial spe-
cies which meet regional specifications of
soundness and form, and which are of the
following diameters at breast height: soft-
woods 5.0 to 9.0 inches, hardwoods 5.0 to 11.0
inches. Such trees will usually become saw-
timber trees if left to grow.

Seedling and sapling trees-—Live trees of
commercial species less than 5.0 inches in