variability as well as the utility of the current
hardwood inventory.

Nearly 9 billion board feet of Mississippi’s
standing hardwood is in logs of standard fac-
tory lumber grade. Of this, some 30 percent
is in grades 1 and 2—the logs most generally
in demand by sawmills, veneer plants, and
other industries needing clear material. The
6 billion board feet of grade 3 volume simply
consist of the lowest grade of logs that are
suitable for conversion into standard lumber,
in the sense that they are capable of yielding
practical proportions of clear cuttings.

These grades, developed by the U.S. Forest
Products Laboratory, take into account the
diameter, length, and amount of defects in indi-
vidual logs.’ Studies have shown that they
dependably predict the lumber grade outturn
of logs of specified grade. For nearly all species
tested, the yield of No. 1 Common and better
lumber in grade 1 logs varies from 65 to 80
percent; in grade 2 logs from 40 to 64 percent;
and in grade 3 logs from 13 to 36 percent.

The remaining 3 billion board feet of hard-
wood inventory is in tie and timber logs—logs
with so many sound defects that they will not
produce worthwhile amounts of clear material,
when sawn wholly into lumber. They are
presently suited, however, for such uses as
heavy structural material, crating, and cross-
ties.

Both the relative density and the dispersion
of the timber within the State vary widely by
species (see figs. 6-22). Broadly speaking, the
greatest concentration of pine sawtimber is
in the southeastern and southwestern sections.
Among hardwoods, oaks greatly exceed all
others not only in volume but in extent of
distribution. Hickory, sweetgum, and black-
gum also range widely, the latter two attaining
their best development in the bottom lands.
Yellow-poplar is thinly scattered east of the
Delta. Ash and white elm, though widely dis-
persed, are most common in the western part
of the State. Cottonwood, willow, pecan, syca-
more, and hackberry are most prominent in
the Mississippi River bottoms. Magnolia is
found mainly in’ the southeastern counties,
beech, in the southwest.

‘For detailed specifications of log grades, see Hardwood log
grades for standard lumber: proposals and results. U.S.
Forest Serv. Forest’ Prod. Lab. Rpt. D1737. 1949.

That Mississippi timber is suitable for many
useful and marketable products is partly dem-
onstrated by the number and variety of timber-
connected industries operating in the State—
about 1,000 sawmills, 7 woodpulp mills, and
some 100 other plants manufacturing such
items as veneer, cooperage, poles, handle stock,
shuttle blocks, furniture dimension, and char-
coal.

OPPORTUNITIES FOR FOREST INDUSTRY
EXPANSION

What about opportunities for new industrial
development based upon utilization of current
timber resources?

Pulp and paper is presently the fastest grow-
ing segment of Mississippi’s forest industry. In
response to plant expansion within the State
and in peripheral areas, pulpwood production
(mainly pine) has risen to 2 million cords
annually; 25 years ago the State’s output was
less than 300,000 cords. Opportunities for
further increasing the pulpwood cut are prom-
ising. Not only is pine in measurably greater
supply today than it was a decade ago, but cur-
rent growth is well in excess of the annual
harvest. Moreover, a 75-percent increase since
1948 in numbers of pines 2 to 4 inches in
diameter points to further improvement in
pulpwood supplies, if fire protection and other
essential forestry programs are continued and
strengthened.

Mississippi is also a top-ranking producer
of southern pine poles. Most of the annual pole
harvest is shipped to the 16 pressure treating
plants in the State: One recent study indicated
that more than two-thirds of the poles received
at treating plants in the South are 16 to 35
feet in length. These lengths can be readily
cut from pines 8 to 20 inches in diameter—
size classes that are now increasing in number
in Mississippi. Nationwide, the number of
utility poles in service has been rising and is
expected to increase further. Too, in recent
years a growing market has developed for poles
used in barns, storage sheds, and other types
of structures. Though demand for poles is
expected to heighten, it will probably be met
by greater output from existing firms rather
than by new installations.

For the immediate future, possibilities for
development of new industry based upon pri-