mary conversion of sawtimber are obviously
more limited for hardwood than for pine, in
view of the heavy use already being made of
such material. Nevertheless there are still
localities where some slack can be found.

In the north Mississippi area embracing Cal-
houn, Itawamba, Lafayette, Lee, Marshall,
Tate, Tippah, Tishomingo, and Union Counties,
hardwood sawtimber volume has increased
some 36 percent since 1948. More than half
of the 2.9 million acres in these nine counties
is forested. The area, which displays con-
siderable physiographic variation, encompasses
some excellent hardwood sites such as the
brown loam soils in Lafayette, Tate, and Mar-
shall Counties, as well as the alluvial soils
along the Coldwater, Tallahatchie, Yacona,
Yalabusha, and other waterways.

The 752 thousand acres of hardwood forests
in the 9 counties average 1,300 board feet per
acre. But in the bottom lands, which support
two-fifths of the hardwood sawtimber, the
average is over 2,200 board feet. By way of
contrast, the statewide average of bottom-land
sawtimber volume is only 1,700 board feet per
acre. Of the 1.2 billion board feet of hardwood
sawtimber in the 9 counties, 44 percent is oak,
27 percent is gum, and the rest is mainly in
a variety of firm-textured species like hickory
and ash.

Hardwood sawtimber volume has also risen
during the past decade in Forrest, George,
Greene, Hancock, Jackson, Pearl River, Perry,
and Stone Counties. Forests occupy 78 percent
of the 3 million acres of land area in these 8
southeast counties. Hardwood sawtimber vol-
ume—up 46 percent since 1948—now totals one
billion board feet; two-thirds is on the 325
thousand acres of bottom-land forests, which
average 2,400 board feet per acre. The bot-
toms are chiefly along the Pearl and Pasca-
goula Rivers and their tributaries.

The hardwood volume in the southeast is
predominantly in soft-textured species that are
suitable for conversion into veneer as well as
lumber. Some 45 percent of the volume is gum,
26 percent other soft-textured species, and 29
percent firm-textured species, largely red oak.

The ownership pattern of the 8-county hard-
wood resource affords an indication of its
relative availability. Some 9 percent of the

volume is on public lands (chiefly national
forest), while 13 percent is on forest industry
holdings, and 78 percent on other types of
private ownerships. Except for a somewhat
lower proportion of public stumpage, this own-
ership pattern is much like that of the 9-county
area cited earlier.

In sections where hardwoods are already
being heavily used, near-term expanion of
wood-using industry can come in part through
more intensive utilization of the available raw
material. Where it can be done economically,
one means is by increasing secondary manu-
facture, so as to produce more finished prod-
ucts. Another is by making use of lower
quality timber and perhaps of the leavings of
sawmills, planing mills, and other plants.

Long-range possibilities for growth in secon-
dary industry appear favorable. The move-
ment, in fact, is already under way. Primary
manufacturers have advanced it in the process
of diversification and in undertaking further
manufacture of their products. Independent
secondary manufacture, too, has expanded, as
witness the growth of the furniture industry
at New Albany, Tupelo, Okolona, Eupora, Le-
land, Meridian, and elsewhere.

In conjunction with the expansion of the
State’s furniture industry, the particle-board
market gives promise of continuing to grow.
Manufacture of particle board involves mixing
small fractions of wood with resins and com-
pressing the mixture into boards of various
thicknesses. These boards, which can be made
from available low-grade hardwood, are used.
for a number of purposes, including wall panel-
ling and core stock for furniture.

Basic to the security and expansion of both
primary and secondary manufacture is good
management of the timber resource. In antici-
pation of greater long-term demand for timber,
pine management programs have already been
expanded and intensified in many parts of the
State, especially on forest-industry lands and
public holdings. An additional motivation for
the programs on industrial ownerships is the
need for assured supplies of raw material to
protect capital investments. Both public agen-
cies and forest industries are also sponsoring
programs of technical assistance to stimulate
forestry on small ownerships. Although man-
agement is progressing more rapidly in pine