17/10/2017 Tribute | U.R. Ananthamurthy’s many lives - Livemint

The Gandhian ideal of sarvodaya (welfare of all) came to matter to him more and more as an alternative to the lopsided model of
economic development that has become influential in our country in recent times. His advice to the Karnataka government that
Bangalore be officially renamed Bengaluru aimed to subvert corporate attempts to reduce the city to Brand Bangalore.

With the ecological crisis in mind, he had wryly noted that “The earth is the only Left that we have”. His Hind Swaraj Or Hindutuc
concludes thus: “Humans might change after being nauseated with too much development. Or, the earth will speak.”

URA relished metaphors. He reminisced: “Basavalingappa (the widely respected Dalit politician in Karnataka) would say that when
upper-caste people climbed on the backs of Dalits to get a glimpse of a theatre performance in a crowded audience, we used to think
that that was part of the performance. No longer.” He loved this metaphoric description of political awakening among Dalits.

Another instance: URA would recall the socialist leader Gopala Gowda’s remarks to describe the class equality-or-nothing stand of the
Communists—“The communists won’t share the earth until they are done sharing the sky.”

The creative use of metaphors, for him, was essential for a lively democratic politics; it might even “open the heavens”. This perhaps
explains his admiration for the symbolic tactics of Aam Aadmi Party leader Arvind Kejriwal, be it his all-night street dharna
(protest) after becoming the chief minister (CM) of Delhi (“He has made the person of the CM more approachable now’), or his quiet
dip in the Ganga upon arriving for his election campaign in Varanasi.

URA was unequivocal in his condemnation of violence of both the Naxal and the right-wing communal variety. Over the last few years,
right-wing groups haven't missed an opportunity to attack his liberal views. None of this, however, seemed to diminish URA’s

equanimity; he continued to be a free intellectual spirit.

Never one to give in to worry, his actions embodied unwavering courage and wisdom. He was a moral presence, above all. In dark
times like these, our sense of loss is of another order altogether.

The author is professor of social sciences, Azim Premji University, Bangalore.

First Published: Sat, Aug 30 2014. 12 10 AM IST

TOPICS: | U.R. ANANTHAMURTHY URA TRIBUTE OBITUARY CASTE EQUALITY

You May Like ‘Sponsored Links by Taboola

10 Best Dating Sites for Singles in Bangalore
Online Dating Services | Search Links

Get Certified in Financial Management from XLRI - Online Course
XLRI

15 Baahubali 2 Before/After VFX Scenes You Won't Believe
MensXP

Peninsula Heights
Penninsula Heights

Biggest Giveaways this Diwali! Play Rummy Now!
Junglee Rummy

The Credit Cards Bangalore Wants Are Here - Apply Now
Bankbazaar

EDITOR'S PICKS »

http:/Awww.livemint.com/Leisure/H0O7ppIZ|GeBggta36ikENO/Tribute--UR-Ananthamurthys-many-lives.html 3/4