17/10/2017 Tribute | U.R. Ananthamurthy’s many lives - Livemint

Mysore was an important hub of intellectual discussions in the 1950s. Kuvempu (the pen name of Kuppali Venkatappa
Puttappa), the distinguished Kannada novelist, taught Kannada literature at the university. Gopalalarishna Adiga, the famous
modernist Kannada poet and an important interlocutor for URA, taught at a college in Mysore. Writer R.K. Narayan also lived and
worked in Mysore at this time.

After his master’s in English literature, URA taught at colleges in the Shimoga and Hassan districts. He completed his PhD from the
University of Birmingham, UK, in 1966. Although he was interested in doing his doctoral research on D.H. Lawrence, his adviser,
Malcolm Bradbury, the novelist, got him interested in the fiction of the 1930s, the period that saw the rise of fascism in Europe. URA’s
research focused on the work of Christopher Isherwood and Edward Upward, both of whom had become disillusioned with
communism for different reasons (I believe this dissertation will be published soon).

URA wrote Samskara in 1965 during his studies in Birmingham. Though his earlier short-story collections had established him as an
important writer, this novel proved to be a landmark in the phase of literary modernism known as the navya (new) movement in
Kannada (released in 1970, the film Samskara, based on the novel, inaugurated the new wave cinema in Kannada). It evoked
immense controversy for its critical portrayal of the oppressive dimensions of Brahminical culture.

After completing his PhD in 1966, URA returned to teach English literature at the University of Mysore. He was to work there till his
retirement in 1992. During his entire academic career, he wrote little by way of literary criticism in English. The world of Kannada
literature and criticism was his home.

While Samskara ruthlessly exposed the stultifying effects of orthodox tradition and pointed at the value of individual scepticism and
creativity, his second novel, Bharathipura (1973), explored the philosophical difficulties of envisioning liberal reform of the
institution of untouchability and seemingly superstitious religious practices.

From here onward, URA’s fictional works show a growing interest in looking for sources of reform and creativity within tradition,
without seeking a ready resort in Western ideas of freedom and equality. His efforts to show the limitations of Western liberal thought
for evolving a critique of Indian society anticipate many of the themes that came to preoccupy “post-colonial” thought two decades
later.

Much of URA’s written work over the last decade consisted of op-ed essays in Kannada newspapers, which have been collected in eight
separate volumes. They offer exciting commentaries on the major political and social issues in the state and outside. He also published
his translations of the poems of Bertolt Brecht, W.B. Yeats, Rainer Maria Rilke and William Wordsworth. In the last few weeks of his
life, he worked hard to finish what he called “a political tract”, titled Hind Swaraj Athava Hindutva? (Hind Swaraj Or Hindutva?),
where he examines the fate of the ideas of Veer Savarkar and M.K. Gandhi in contemporary India.

In one of my interviews with him, I had hesitatingly asked: How would you like to be remembered? He replied: “As a teacher, and a
writer.”

URA took teaching seriously. I grew up listening to stories about the brilliance of URA’s classroom lectures from my father, who had
been his student in the early 1960s. When I had completed the first chapter of my dissertation (around 2004), he asked me to send it
to him. Two days later, he sent me an email full of comments and questions on that chapter. After watching the telecast of his lecture
videos on major modern Kannada writers a month ago, a programme which I had designed, he had asked: “People will now know how
I taught, isn’t it?”

URA was a mesmerizing speaker. Listening to him was pure pleasure, whether you shared his views or not. He took all occasions
seriously. I have heard him give thoughtful speeches in massive outdoor settings as well as in small school playgrounds.

URA was an intense listener too. All the details had to be in place. I would never call him unless I was certain of the essential details of
an article draft he had sent for comments. What did you think of this idea? And that phrase? Do you know where it comes from?

As a teacher, writer, critic, activist and administrator, URA had engaged with a vast number of individuals and was a public
intellectual in the most capacious sense of the term. Many students as well as non-students called him meshtru (teacher in Kannada).
He had a special place among Indian writers for his bold embrace of the virtues and political importance of Indian language writing.

Key politicians, farmers’ activists, Dalit activists and environmental activists were among URA’s close friends. Although literary
activism was his forte, he enthusiastically joined in with the activist efforts of backward castes and secular forces. He led a successful
campaign to stop mining activities in Kudremukh, in Karnataka’s Chikmagalur district, in 2001. His contribution to the shaping of
progressive thought in Karnataka is immense.

The idea of an affordable common school in all neighbourhoods, which gave students a strong grounding in Indian languages, and did
not discriminate on class lines, mattered deeply to him. He argued passionately that creativity in knowledge was possible only in
Indian languages and that English, though necessary as a language of communication in the modern world, could not aid in this task.

http:/Awww.livemint.com/Leisure/H0O7ppIZ|GeBggta36ikENO/Tribute--UR-Ananthamurthys-many-lives.html 2/4