DECCAN CHRONICLE - 03-09-2018
Flood forecasting: Myths and realities

BU AGEORGE AND fall. streamiow soil mots ological mod wave to variows locations. that releases from these and reports of soll survey cially in steep slopes by
MANOJ P.SAMUEL nd use ete. The data oer ‘The forecasters can pro storages can take imo and conservation depart. promoting afforestation or
shed to a dagt. vide the rate of peak flow account whike forecasting ments mary be made use of planting grasses like vetiv
he recent floods ial elevation model in GIS There tsanced toseecta at each ‘location in the the Ooo The =

in Kereta. ware (Ocegraphical kuirmation settable madd based en basta governement Rxplore traditional
fareastating and Systemy Many GIS. soft. the hoed and availablity of Dissemination of ments sod NGOs can te water’ management stror
seated. a uge ‘wares are now sveliobee data. The model should be oralled for prevar’ fee ine pene tonmets
Ehud pee ke Ge ek ene Biman Decision Support forecasts warning Sine ‘ratrsbls is spar, snl refine fin tochumeboay
mols using historical data. Once System Once the forecast infor: ticipatory med fr prevent day aw

    
 

     
  

     

    

   

      

iy animal recs Wemately weeiaed w

             

and agriculture. The satu- ture and land use data raed] bs estimated Sor — Computer software taxed mation is readily availatte HM possitie, 40 2 floc Encourage rural clubs
ral balance of earth, soll, also very useful The cach hyvtrotogieal response decision support system is the dissemination of the plain analysis and map- and schools to take part in

     

forests and water is also runcé! oc

 

from an ara un

 

%, suitable routing very useful

  

in making sof warn

 

to public at risk ping. The vulnerable area the campaten

    

              

  

severely affected. The depends on the respective algurithes are used forthe ficient decisions based oe through various media i for flood and landslides — -Establish

social and political debates soll moisture status. peak Now based om time of the forecast information. very much essential. This may be marked. mation

now focus om the question Satellite based metrorolag. concentration Water level forecast is very information should reach from schentific Paenctarrath offices or
that whether floods could cal data would also useful important to decide where the community with suff) learning of eléers in te munity areas, integrated

     

 

be forecasted a
tored in a beeer

          
 

4 moe): where direct measure Weather the water is likely to over: clent lead tame for taking community may alsomake to IMD or other local
ay ments are not available Ww forecast Gow the banks. This infor. necessary actions use of. Ideally all the con. weather advisory services.
Developing a Good fore ‘This information is Dace. The country’s weather mation should be covert fa fact, the roservolr struction permits and Plan a real tame leforms
casting and warning sys lng’ Increasingly useful Department UMD) fore ed into warnings and ie operations are based cs a other relased licences thon system warnng cen
tem for communities at where the river streams casts rainfall and tempers seminaie to the commant Ie of predictions and showht be issond based tre in theme
Fisk requires good quality are net gauged The dita ture at suffichent head times. ties, Converting the approximations. On time marlon inforssatice panchayathe. aw

Gata, telemetry system, available with various Tie accuracy of these fore cast Information into load ralnfall for > Prepare a land use map es ce prone 0 lane
forecasting tools and dis’ agencies like Central casts varies with bead time. oo mapping Is meteorclogical with the help of Mower technct>
semnination of warning 10 Water commission (CWC), A forecaster can wie this essential to understand the ment coupled Aericulture department ges like GES cr choot com
ccanminition. The systems EMD. NRSC, KSEB, sen 80. provide analyand inser asd mark fragile puting can be made use of
should Issue warning at lerigation department, etc. some forveasts of flood in pee nos rainfall pat specific uses. Remove hin- A local weather informs
suaficieet Jead time so that may be pooted together for the next few days and can essential for timely ‘man tion and disaster preven
the ccenmunities cas talst further acalyan up cement of roservolr tion App can be developed
ecesaary action thcaling metry data cbtalning The shvutters of the dam wal foe vulnerable areas with

syacuinon Telemetry System om the coxchment awe t0 be operated bax Considering the unique nradall point at State disas

2 components cf on the reabtine inputs 3 and demo- be taken up at appropriate tor management centre

 

 

          

       
 
   
   
 
  
   
          
    
    
  
  

              

          
  

 

 

 

   

 

      

           

        

   
 

       
   
  
        
     
       
 

     
  
  
   
       
      
 
  
 
   
  
  
       

 

    
    

       
   
      

   

   

 

        

8 flood forveasting system The collected dxts should Forecasting from the computer soft | features of areas Make provisions for an
include (Fiz be transmitted to a central eh Se cena t k Zevernment, ‘Encourage soil conser: immediate rescue and
Data acquisition it can it may take several hours routing model. If there are and public vation practions in the relief centre is Mentified
Tetreteery sy ntres nd analysed. The for the rain occurred dae storaiges tn should foeus on the follow. catchments areas, by pro panchayaths.
Hydrological modelling streamflow and rainfall catchment to reach the ment, the  forec ing points viding provisions for ade
Weather forecast data from remote locations river and to the lower part shoul! include Every Panchayath guste érainage (Bie A George is for
Poew floods should be transferred river bas weer operating should undertake a survey —“Desllt the watercourses mer faculty of University
Decision supper system instantaneously for up to thetr modelling and make a repository of at regular intervals. of Melbourne, Awstratia
Dam operation date forecast. This reqaire varleus water and natural Prevent adding plastics and International Centre
Dissemination of fore network of raingauges resources available im and other wastes to water for Dry land Agriculture,

 

 

arning aed water bevel mamitorseg ca their jurisdiction along bodies. Cairo, Keype
stations throughout the with the drainage map, ‘Protect the bare bunts, Manoj P Samuet és Pri

   

 

Data acquisition catchranek land use map and soil mag neipal scientist? heed.
‘The available water ICAR-Cencral Institute of
collect ms shed maga Fisheries Technologs.

 

much as possible historical
data. The data required for
2 forecast system
inchades. rain

Kochi and Former
State Manger of
Rainwater
Harvesting
SD, Campaicn.
~~