ee The Times of India, Wednesday, January 02, 2013, pp.3

A Bangalorean helped
physicist calculate time

The American Went On
To Win Physics Nobel

Rhik Kundu | TNN

Bangalore: American physicist David J
Wineland, who along with French scientist
Serge Haroche won the 2012 Nobel Prize for
his works in quantum physics, has a Ban-
galore connection. This link, incidentally,
contributed significantly to the works that
eventually got the physicist the honour.
Dr Bhanu Pratap Das, the top boss of
the city’s Indian Institute of Astrophysics,
has known Dr Wineland since 1984 when
both were involved in academic works in
the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) at Colorado, US.

CONNECT

The scientists share a common inter-
est: developing extremely precise clocks.
They kept in touch after Das moved back
to India.

According to Das, Cesium ions were
used to measure time accurately until sci-
entists like Wineland started using alu-
minum ions which got better results. “The
time taken by a Cesium ion to give out a
frequency of 9192631770 Hz was consid-
ered the most accurate calculation for a
second,” he said, “until the scientists start-
ed experimenting with aluminum ions.”

In 2010, Wineland asked Das to reduce
the error in calculating time. “He was not
very sure whether the black body radia-
tion figures which are instrumental in cal-
culating a second were correct or not,” Das
said. Blackbody radiation refers to an ob-
ject or system which absorbs all radiation.
incidents upon it and re-radiates energy.

Das, his former students, HS Nataraj
and BK Sahoo, and their two foreign re-
search collaborators, Lucas Visscher and
Mihaly Kallay, concluded their theoret-
ical experiments in less than a year. “Our
Blackbody Radiation Shift calculation
had reduced the systematic error by

 

: Physicist David J Wineland

What the Nobel was for

Wineland's finding has enabled scientists
take the "first steps towards building a new
type of super fast computer based.on
quantum physics. Perhaps the quantum
computer will change our everyday lives in
this century in the same radical way as the
classical computer did in the last century.
The research has also led to the construction
of extremely precise clocks that could
become the future basis for a new standard
of time, with more than hundred-fold greater
precision than present-day caesium clocks",
the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said.

about 28%,” said Das.

Das’s work was published in a journal
in March 2011. The next year, Wineland’s
work based on conclusions of Das, fetched
the American physicist the Nobel for
‘ground-breaking experimental methods
which enable measuring and manipula-
tion of individual quantum systems’.