Gamma ray effect on life

eriodic mass extinctions of life
P on earth have often been dis-

cussed. The latest mass extinc-
tion at the end of the cretaceous peri-
od, sixty five million years ago, virtu-
ally wiped out the dinosaurs ending
their hundred million-year domi-
nance of terra firma. At least, this
particular extinction is now general-
ly accepted as having been caused by
the impact of a ten-kilometre diame-
ter asteroid, which left a crater in the
Yucatan peninsula.

Hardly ten years ago, comet Shoe-
Maker Levy broke up and impacted
Jupiter with a force of several million
megaton bombs. If it had struck the
earth instead most life would have
been snuffed out. There have been at-
tempts to track all Near Earth Objects
more than a km across (NEOs) and
suggestions to destroy them or divert
their path in case they are on a colli-
sion course with our planets.

It has also been suggested that
some earlier mass extinctions could
have been due to a nearby supernova
(ten light years away). However, the
most violent events in the universe
are known to be gamma ray bursts
(GRB). Everyday, two or three are
recorded by space-based gamma ray
telescopes. They generate energy in
gamma rays alone in a few seconds
equal in energy to the entire output
of the sun in its whole lifetime of ten
billion years.

-Their concentrated beams of high
energy would devastate planetary at-
mospheres even if they occured thou-
sands of light years away! The Hub-
ble Space Telescope has been used to
image the host galaxies of about 42 of
the long duration GRBs. Only one
went off in a spiral galaxy (like ours),
all others in irregular dwarf galax-
ies. Long GRBs are the result of col-
lapse of very massive Wolf-Rayet
(WR) stars, that is, they have lost

   

A gamma ray burst

their hydrogen and perhaps helium
envelopes. Again, host galaxies of
five of the nearest long GRBs (all
closer than two billion light years) all
have oxygen abundance about half
that of our Milky Way (MW) galaxy.
The higher the host galaxy’s metallic-
ity the lower the burst energy.

So, the progenitors are all of low
metal content characteristic of the
early epochs when metals were just
being made instars. The Milky Way’s
stars have become highly enriched in
metals over years of stellar evolu-
tion. Most stars in our galaxy’s disc
are metal rich. So GRBs in our galaxy
are (it is surmised) a negligible
threat.

Conditions for life

So, two factors have worked to cre-
ate favourable conditions for life in
the universe. First, we had to wait a
couple of billion years before stars
with sufficient amount of metals
(carbon, iron etc.) formed. The in-
crease in metallicity also brought
down the possibility of GRB explo-
sions to destroy life! Supernovae can
still be a threat. At least, once in 2-3
billion years a nearby supernova can
threaten to make life extinct. What
about short period GRBs (due to
merger of neutron stars)?

Short period gamma ray bursts oc-
cur for about two seconds or less.
Their gamma radiation is harder, al-
though the total amount of energy re-
leased is less. Merger of neutron
stars is a popular model for their ori-
gin. Since the discovery of the binary
pulsar, 30 years ago, other such sys-
tems are known.

About two years ago, a binary neu-
tron star with an orbital period of
only two and half hours was discov-
ered. Gravitational radiation from
such a system is enough to make it
merge. The two neutron stars merge

in about a lakh years. Indeed, we can
actually detect the two compact stars
coming closer by several metres
every month! (by the shortening of
the period). The system is more than
a kiloparsec away.

This ultimate merger of the two
neutron stars would unleash a burst
of gamma rays of energy a quadrag-
intillion joules (ten followed by forty
four zeros!). Even if such a source is
away a thousand light years, the gam-
ma ray flux on the whole earth from
such a merger would be comparable
to the combined radiation, released
from all the nuclear warheads on the
earth (about ten thousand mega-
tons!). The ionosphere and ozone lay-
er would be completely destroyed
causing the extinction of most
species. White dwarf binaries with
periods of 5 minutes as well as neu-
tron star-white dwarf binaries with
ten-minute periods are also known.
There could be binary neutron stars
in our neighbourhood, a neutron star
Geminga was found hardly sixty par-
secs away.

Another type of energetic source
is the soft gamma ray repeater (SGR).
On December 26, 2004, a day after the
tsunami, such a SGR did burst out.
There was a powerful gamma ray
burst, which in 0.2 seconds released
as much energy as the sun radiates in
five lakh years. Luckily the source
was at the other end of the galaxy.
Only our ionosphere was affected.
These SGRs are known to be magne-
tars, neutron stars with magnetic
fields, pentillion times stronger than
the earth’s. There was a similar such
event on August 28, 2003. With all
these cataclysms going on all around,
the possibility of gamma ray out-
bursts of some sort affecting life on
earth cannot be ruled out.

C SHIVRAM